EVOLVING TRAVEL EXPERIENCE -- Corporate travelers have become accustomed to booking trips on company intranet engines that calculate the best fares and strictly enforce travel cost-savings policies. In its early stages, corporate online booking was all about saving a few dollars on each fare, with little regard to the traveler's control. Now, because of better technology, that situation is changing, says David A. Falter, the president for corporate travel solutions for the Cendant Corporation. ''We think 2005 will show a rapid expansion for online booking in the corporate space,'' Mr. Falter said yesterday. Many business travelers complain that online corporate travel systems severely limit their choices on the road, but Mr. Falter said technology was advancing to go beyond ''commoditization'' air fares. ''The next generation in travel through online services is going to be, 'how do I give the traveler the self-serve opportunity throughout the travel experience' -- self-service with regard to changing travel plans'' using personal digital assistants and other devices while traveling. ''Online booking has changed the nature of how travel is started, but it has not changed the nature of how travel is conducted,'' he said. ''It's not just about saving money, it's about giving the corporate traveler the power.''
AIRPLANE SPACE RACE -- Will the workhorse wide-body airliner of the future be a huge double-decker plane? One such plane, the Airbus A380, is expected to be flying commercially next year, with enough room for 500 to more than 800 passengers, depending on the way airlines configure it. Another contender for workhorse of the air is the sleeker, more flexible and more modest 7E7 aircraft, still being developed by Boeing. Continental Airlines, the first domestic carrier to order the 7E7, has placed a big bet on the new aircraft, with 10 orders. The first of them is scheduled for delivery in 2009. Lawrence W. Kellner, Continental's president who is soon to succeed the retiring Gordon M. Bethune as chief executive, said, ''The 7E7 is the widebody of the future for Continental and will provide the platform for our long-term international growth.'' Airbus, the European aircraft maker, is preparing the A380 for its first demonstration flight this winter. Commercial flights are expected to begin next year. Airbus said it had 129 orders as of Nov. 30 for the new superjumbos.
