A380 DEBUT -- Singapore Airlines plans to begin the first commercial service of the Airbus A380 in December, and will unveil its cabin design for the new superjumbo jet in September, according to Subhas Menon, the airline's vice president for the Americas. In an interview, Mr. Menon said that all 10 double-deck A380's that Singapore has ordered will be configured with about 475 seats in first class, business class and economy cabins. Most of the 12 other airlines that have ordered the jets -- none of them United States carriers -- have said they will fly their A380's with about 550 seats, though the plane can seat nearly 900 in an all-coach configuration. The first service will be on one of the airline's signature long-haul routes, Singapore to Sydney, Australia, with a London route to follow as more planes come into service, Mr. Menon said. In September, Singapore will unveil an A380 cabin design that stresses ''convenience and comfort, as well as an enhanced ability to do some of the things people need to do on long-haul travel, like work, relax, sleep and get in shape,'' he said, adding, ''We want to emphasize the space.'' The new business- and first-class seats will be introduced around the time British Airways is expected to announce details of a $170 million makeover of its own premium-class flat-bed seats. Singapore has not set a date for starting A380 service to and from the United States, but Mr. Menon said the carrier was looking more closely at using San Francisco International Airport, which has made the necessary modifications to accommodate the giant jet.
A380 TEST -- In a passenger evacuation test required for regulatory certification of the A380 jet, Airbus said it managed to get 873 passengers and 20 crew members off one of its new double-deck jumbo aircraft on Sunday within the required 90 seconds. The test was conducted in a darkened hangar at an Airbus site in Hamburg, Germany. Airbus said that only half of the aircraft's 16 exits were used to empty the jet. During the test evacuation, one passenger suffered a broken leg, Airbus said. The Associated Press reported that 32 other passengers suffered minor injuries. The successful test paved the way for authorities to ''certify the aircraft in time for delivery by the end of 2006,'' Airbus said.
