SECURITY EXPEDITING PROGRAM -- The Transportation Security Administration expects to have registered traveler programs running in 10 to 20 airports ''as soon as this summer,'' said Kip Hawley, the head of the agency. The program will allow travelers who undergo a security check to buy an electronic identity card encoded with biometric data like fingerprints and iris scans; cardholders would then use designated lanes to speed their way through security. The agency has not yet said what specific time-saving benefits cardholders can expect. In its latest directive on the program last week, the agency approved a basic business model that requires the private companies operating the lanes to ensure that their cards are compatible with all competing programs and that cardholder privacy measures are in place. ''While the combination of benefits and security measures available at each participating airport may vary,'' the agency said, all members of the program ''should receive an expedited and more convenient checkpoint experience.'' The only registered traveler program currently in operation is run by Verified Identity Pass at Orlando International Airport in Florida; membership costs $79.95 a year. Steven Brill, the founder of Verified Identity, hailed Mr. Hawley's ''clear promise'' that the program would offer expedited screening. Mr. Brill said he expected that his company would introduce programs by June in Indianapolis, Cincinnati and San Jose, Calif., and at eight other airports in the summer and fall. Competitors are developing similar programs and preparing to start some of them this summer.
CORPORATE JET SECURITY WARNING -- Citing a message posted in Arabic on an extremist Web site calling for attacks on corporate and other private jets, the Transportation Security Administration issued an advisory urging general aviation operators to monitor their security procedures closely. More than 13,000 business jets operate worldwide, most of them based in the United States. Last year, 750 new business jets were sold, a 26.9 percent increase over 2004, according to the General Aviation Manufacturers Association. According to the agency, the Web site message said in part, ''It is the duty of Muslims to destroy all types of private American aircrafts that are of the types Gulfstream and Learjet and all small jet aircraft usually used'' by businessmen. Passengers on corporate jets are not usually subject to screenings by agency workers; security is provided by the jet operator and pilots under federal guidelines.
