The government moved in bankruptcy court late Thursday to oppose an agreement that United Airlines recently struck with its pilots' union on the looming termination of the pilots' pension plan.
In a motion filed in federal bankruptcy court in Chicago, the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation accused United of attempting to circumvent the federal pension law with the agreement, and of offering its active pilots relief ''at the expense of the federal government, its other employees and creditors.''
A.J. Richard, whose contagious enthusiasm for new gadgets transformed P.C. Richard & Son from a hardware store into a major retailer of consumer appliances and electronics, died on Dec. 28 in West Islip, N.Y. He was 95 and lived in Bay Shore and Port St. Lucie, Fla.
The cause was pneumonia, said Alan Meschkow, the company's advertising director.
''Just call me Sid,'' Sidney Frank instructed a visitor recently. ''Everyone else does.''
Actually, that is not all they call him -- not in the liquor industry, anyway. These days, he is known to many as the ''Two Billion Dollar Man.''
Shares in Eli Lilly & Company fell yesterday after an article in a medical journal suggested that the drug company had long concealed evidence that its well-known antidepressant, Prozac, could cause violent and suicidal behavior.
The accusations were made in the Jan. 1 issue of The British Medical Journal, which said it had turned over documents related to the allegations to the United States Food and Drug Administration. The F.D.A. was reviewing the papers, which had been missing for more than 10 years, according to the Journal article, which said they were originally gathered during a lawsuit against Lilly on behalf of victims of a gunman in Kentucky who had reportedly been taking Prozac for a month before going on a rampage.
PRESIDENT BUSH'S proposal to privatize some aspects of Social Security has focused attention on the unrealistic expectations that many individual investors -- and politicians, for that matter -- have for the stock market over the long term. But several researchers warn that many companies also have inflated expectations for the stocks underpinning their pension plans. To the extent that those companies have to make up for the plans' deficits, a significant miscalculation about stock returns could greatly reduce their earnings per share -- further depressing stock prices.
Robert D. Arnott, the chairman of Research Affiliates, a research and asset management firm based in Pasadena, Calif., says the typical corporation is now projecting that the investments in its pension plan will grow at an annualized rate of around 8.5 percent. Because the average pension plan has about two-thirds of its investments in stocks and a third in bonds, this implies a long-term stock return of more than 10 percent a year. Given current expectations about inflation, that works out to a real, or inflation-adjusted, return of around 7 percent.
WHILE investors were clearly cheered by the fact that stocks finished 2004 in the plus column, it was also obvious that three consecutive years of corporate scandals had finally begun to take their toll on executives.
In the years after Enron, many chief executives had been operating in a defensive crouch. Last year, however, they switched to offense, yelping about the new securities rules -- way too strict and so time-consuming -- and whining that Eliot Spitzer and his meddlesome investigations could wreck the nation's economy. The United States Chamber of Commerce even sued the Securities and Exchange Commission, hoping to overturn its new rule requiring mutual fund chairmen to be independent.
The stock market was decent to investors in 2004, as the 9 percent gain for the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index pretty much matched the consensus forecast.
The biggest contributors to the increase were ExxonMobil, General Electric and Johnson & Johnson. Based on last year's performance and their weighting in the S.& P. 500 index, they accounted for about 1.6 percentage points of the year's gain, according to Standard & Poor's.
TECHNOLOGY stocks were big movers last year, but only some moved in the right direction. Shares of companies involved in Internet retailing rose 80 percent in 2004, while those of Internet software and services companies climbed 66.8 percent, ranking both categories among the best performers of 113 stock market sectors followed by Standard & Poor's.
Technology consultants and makers of semiconductor equipment, by contrast, were the two worst sectors, showing losses of 31.4 percent and 25 percent, compared with a gain of 8.99 percent for S.&P.'s 500-stock index for the year.
When business travelers tell you they're trying to keep their weight down, they may not be talking about cutting back on carbohydrates or spending more time on the treadmill.
Often, the weight they're most worried about carrying around is inside their computer bags, where even an ultralight laptop, with all the accessories that pack on the pounds, can tip the scales.
EVOLVING TRAVEL EXPERIENCE -- Corporate travelers have become accustomed to booking trips on company intranet engines that calculate the best fares and strictly enforce travel cost-savings policies. In its early stages, corporate online booking was all about saving a few dollars on each fare, with little regard to the traveler's control. Now, because of better technology, that situation is changing, says David A. Falter, the president for corporate travel solutions for the Cendant Corporation. ''We think 2005 will show a rapid expansion for online booking in the corporate space,'' Mr. Falter said yesterday. Many business travelers complain that online corporate travel systems severely limit their choices on the road, but Mr. Falter said technology was advancing to go beyond ''commoditization'' air fares. ''The next generation in travel through online services is going to be, 'how do I give the traveler the self-serve opportunity throughout the travel experience' -- self-service with regard to changing travel plans'' using personal digital assistants and other devices while traveling. ''Online booking has changed the nature of how travel is started, but it has not changed the nature of how travel is conducted,'' he said. ''It's not just about saving money, it's about giving the corporate traveler the power.''
AIRPLANE SPACE RACE -- Will the workhorse wide-body airliner of the future be a huge double-decker plane? One such plane, the Airbus A380, is expected to be flying commercially next year, with enough room for 500 to more than 800 passengers, depending on the way airlines configure it. Another contender for workhorse of the air is the sleeker, more flexible and more modest 7E7 aircraft, still being developed by Boeing. Continental Airlines, the first domestic carrier to order the 7E7, has placed a big bet on the new aircraft, with 10 orders. The first of them is scheduled for delivery in 2009. Lawrence W. Kellner, Continental's president who is soon to succeed the retiring Gordon M. Bethune as chief executive, said, ''The 7E7 is the widebody of the future for Continental and will provide the platform for our long-term international growth.'' Airbus, the European aircraft maker, is preparing the A380 for its first demonstration flight this winter. Commercial flights are expected to begin next year. Airbus said it had 129 orders as of Nov. 30 for the new superjumbos.
THE Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders is the American Psychiatric Association's bible for defining hundreds of behaviors deemed to be abnormal enough to be described as mental diseases. One of my favorites is ''dissociative fugue,'' which, says the manual, has as its essential feature ''sudden unexpected travel away from home or one's customary place of daily activities.''
Still, since the manual, now in its fourth edition, is revised every so often, I'm going to suggest an admittedly frivolous new subcategory with dissociative fugue for the next edition: ''mileage-run-induced frequent-flier fugue.''
MADISON AVENUE is walking a fine line in determining its response to the South Asian tsunami. Advertisers, agencies and media companies are seeking ways to show that they care, but they are also striving to avoid the appearance of capitalizing on the disaster for commercial gain.
How advertising addresses the relief efforts is important partly because of the increasing popularity of cause-related marketing, as a growing number of consumers look to spend money with companies they perceive are contributing to the greater good. But doing well by doing good, particularly post-9/11, usually works best when the public considers the attempts to be altruistic rather than self-promotional.
When the first Kentucky Fried Chicken outlet opened in India, in the technology hub of Bangalore in 1995, the welcoming committee was largely absent. It was just four years after India opened its economy to outsiders, and the outlet quickly became a target of irate farmers, Hindu nationalists and others decrying what they saw as the encroachment of the corrupt, and corruptive, West.
KFC's parent, Yum Brands, now has 100 KFC and Pizza Hut restaurants in India, 30 opened in 2004, and a goal of 1,000 by 2014. To realize such growth, the chains have begun a seemingly inexorable march into the country's smaller boomtowns, cities like Coimbatore and Cochin in the south, and Jaipur and Meerut in the north, where middle-class Indians -- who increasingly crave localized Western foods, regional flavors and ingredients infused into the pizza, pasta or poultry -- have hailed their arrival.
Lawyers for Richard A. Grasso, the former chairman of the New York Stock Exchange, have filed a motion in a New York state court asking to see a report that chronicled how Mr. Grasso came to receive a $139.5 million pay package.
Commissioned in late 2003 by John S. Reed, Mr. Grasso's successor, the document, known widely as the Webb report, was prepared by the exchange's lawyer, Dan K. Webb of the firm of Winston & Strawn. It consists of interviews with more than 60 people, including past and present directors of the stock exchange.
Beginning today, the World Business section and the daily stock market tables will be combined into the main Business Day section. The Times will make its daily financial listings more concise by condensing some tables and eliminating secondary ones. The shift is a response to the increasing cost of newsprint and the growing use of listings online. It permits the consolidation of each day's entire business news report and statistics in a single section.
The tables for the Nasdaq small-capitalization market, preferred stocks and foreign stocks are being eliminated, as are the tables for active bond issues, stock exchange bond trading, trading in agency and zero-coupon bonds, cash prices for commodities and daily gold prices. The daily futures table will include prices for the active near-month contract only. A table for trading in corporate bonds will be added.
When one of the biggest Chinese makers of television sets and its distributor in the United States run into financial trouble, should American consumers worry?
No, say industry experts, who note that low-priced conventional TV's are now such generic commodities that the market is not much affected when any single manufacturer stumbles.
Archipelago Holdings, the owner of ArcaEx, the largest electronic stock market, confirmed late last night that it would buy the Pacific Exchange for about $50 million.
While the deal would be relatively small, it is a sign of Archipelago's ambitions, giving the company its first options trading business. The acquisition comes as electronic markets and the traditional floor-based exchanges are scrambling to diversify. It also comes on the eve of anticipated new rules from the Securities and Exchange Commission that could alter the business of every exchange and marketplace.
VIACOM has a lot riding on the executive who comes in to run its stagnant Paramount film studio. Whether or not that executive is Brad Grey, the talent manager who is reportedly close to a deal, the change opens the possibility that the studio's profit contribution to Viacom could grow.
That may be why Viacom's widely held Class B shares have risen nearly 1 percent since Monday, while the overall market has declined. Though the increase was relatively small, it was better than the increases at the other media companies.
Long Island MacArthur Airport is about twice the size of La Guardia, but for decades it was a very sleepy place. Lately, however, thanks in large part to expansion undertaken by Southwest Airlines, it has become a much more vital economic force in Suffolk County.
In August, Southwest Airlines opened a new $51 million concourse at the airport, which is owned by the town of Islip. The 114,254-square-foot concourse was paid for entirely by Southwest. It has four passenger gates, replacing three gates that the airline had been using, as well as five restaurants, a bookstore and a newsstand.
In a bitter split, United Airlines' creditors, along with some banks and unions, have joined the federal government in opposing a deal in which United would terminate its pilots' pension plan and offer the pilots equity in the airline and other sweeteners in exchange.
The showdown will come in a federal bankruptcy court in Chicago tomorrow, as the pilots are set to finish voting on the deal, which United reached with the union leadership last month.
Federal Reserve officials became markedly more worried about inflation last month, with some pushing to raise interest rates faster than originally planned, according to minutes from their policy meeting in December.
The minutes, released on Tuesday afternoon, caused a quick sell-off in the stock market as investors worried that interest rates could rise faster and growth become slower than they had expected.
Apex Digital, the electronic goods company based in California that has been accused by one of China's biggest television makers of causing it huge financial losses, has fought back against the charges, claiming the Chinese company was involved in detaining and apparently pressuring Apex's president.
In court documents that are Apex Digital's first extensive response to the accusations, company executives say that the television maker, Sichuan Changhong Electric, falsely stated that Apex had failed to make payments owed Changhong, and that Changhong required Apex's president, David Ji, to sign agreements unfavorable to Apex while held under arrest.
Bristol-Myers Squibb, the pharmaceutical company, is in talks with several suitors to sell its Excedrin line of pain relievers and other over-the-counter drugs for as much as $1 billion, executives close to the negotiations said yesterday.
A sale of Bristol-Myers Squibb's consumer medicines unit, which consists mainly of Excedrin-branded products like Excedrin Migraine and Excedrin PM, would be the latest move by the company to dispose of noncore product lines as it tries to focus on its drugs to prevent and treat diseases, a field it hopes will offer a higher return. The unit for sale also includes Bufferin; Comtrex, a cold and flu medicine; and Keri lotions.
With only a few days remaining before a Saturday deadline, about 80 of California's largest 100 companies have filed to receive part of a $1.1 billion antitrust settlement with Microsoft, a lawyer involved in the settlement said yesterday.
But it appears that only a small percentage of customers eligible to receive part of the settlement have filed to claim their share, said the lawyer, Richard L. Grossman of Townsend, Townsend & Crew, the lead lawyer representing California consumers in the settlement fight.
EACH January, Americans are inundated with advertising blitzes intended to spur them into paroxysms of self-improvement, centered on making and keeping resolutions for the new year. Hundreds of millions of dollars are spent encouraging people to eat better, exercise, undergo makeovers and spruce up their wardrobes, not to mention give up smoking and other bad habits that can be erased through buying something.
But the 2005 version of the annual festival of self-help commercialism is unexpectedly confronting a potential distraction: news of the devastation caused by the tsunami in South Asia and the subsequent relief efforts. At the same time Americans are being asked to be self-absorbed, they are also being asked to think of others. That could jeopardize the effectiveness of scores of elaborate, expensive campaigns for foods, beverages, cosmetics, exercise and weight-loss regimens, vitamins, nutritional supplements and other products.
CNN has ended its relationship with the conservative commentator Tucker Carlson and will shortly cancel its long-running daily political discussion program, ''Crossfire,'' the new president of CNN, Jonathan Klein, said last night.
Mr. Carlson said he had actually quit ''Crossfire'' last April and had agreed to stay on until his contract expired. He said he had a deal in place for a job as the host of a 9 p.m. nightly talk program on MSNBC, CNN's rival.
Gerard Debreu, the winner of the 1983 Nobel in economic sciences for his research on the balance of supply and demand, died Friday in Paris.
Mr. Debreu, who was 83, died of natural causes, according to a statement released yesterday by the University of California, Berkeley, where he taught for nearly 30 years. His residence was an assisted-living center in Paris, where he moved about a year ago after suffering a stroke, his son-in-law, Richard De Soto, said.
CAN the organizations behind ambitious campaigns intended to change behavior rather than sell products -- which helped put across concepts like the designated driver and a National Mentoring Month -- persuade baby boomers to consider becoming community volunteers as they begin looking at retirement?
That question is being asked as the Center for Health Communication at the Harvard School of Public Health begins an effort this week that includes advertising, events, the publication of a book and a public relations campaign, all aimed at promoting volunteerism. The Metropolitan Life Foundation donated almost $1.7 million to pay for the initial stages of the effort, aimed at the baby boomers, those 75 million to 77 million Americans born from 1946 to 1964.
Havas appears to be in jeopardy of losing its third-largest client, the Intel Corporation, which has signaled that it is considering eliminating agencies owned by Havas from a review for worldwide advertising assignments that began in October, advertising executives who were told of its plans said.
If Intel dismissed the Havas agencies, as Adweek.com reported on Tuesday that it planned to do, they would lose assignments, with spending estimated at more than $300 million, that they have handled for several years.
Down at the dry docks here, where workers are dwarfed by propellers larger than houses, the world's largest shipyard is now so efficient that a new $80 million vessel slips into the water every four working days.
Not content with making some of the most complex products on the world market, naval engineers for the Hyundai Heavy Industries Company are drawing up computer models to increase the size of the largest container ships by more than 25 percent, creating a supervessel that could carry 10,000 steel containers, enough freight capacity for 30 million pairs of sneakers.
The private equity firm Thomas H. Lee Partners is delving deeper into the talent management business, providing the financing for a deal that unites two of the music industry's best-known artist representatives, according to music executives involved in the discussions.
As part of the deal, the talent managers, Irving Azoff and Howard Kaufman, will create a new Front Line Management, a company with a roster of clients that includes the Eagles, Christina Aguilera and Jimmy Buffett. With the Lee investment, whose terms have not been disclosed, the managers are looking to expand by adding a number of other artist representatives.
Executives from Symantec and Veritas Software have been scrambling this week to persuade investors that their proposed $13.5 billion deal, the largest in the software industry, makes sense.
But the share price of Symantec has continued to slide since word emerged on Dec. 14 that the company was in talks to acquire Veritas, making the sales pitch for the transaction, an all-stock deal, even more of a challenge.
Viacom yesterday named Brad Grey, one of the most prominent talent managers in Hollywood, chairman and chief executive of its troubled Paramount Motion Picture Group.
The move promises further change at an operation that has been among Hollywood's weakest in recent years. Mr. Grey succeeds both Sherry Lansing, who earlier announced her planned retirement as studio chief, and Jonathan Dolgen, who left as chairman of Viacom's entertainment group last June.
In case you've forgotten, Saturn's memorable first wave of commercials in 1990 promised a different kind of company. The ads showed autoworkers brimming with sunny optimism at Saturn's newfangled factory in Tennessee, a world away from Detroit.
Saturn was a pet project of General Motors' chairman and chief executive of the 1980's, Roger B. Smith. It promised a different kind of car with a plastic, dent-resistant body, built with the latest manufacturing techniques and sold without haggling. It was just the kind of out-of-the-box idea that was going to win back hundreds of thousands of car buyers flocking to Toyota and Honda.
With the federal pension insurance program in a rapid decline and bracing itself for another year of record losses, officials in the Bush administration are close to unveiling a rescue plan -- medicine they hope will be strong enough to save the agency from a costly bailout but not so strong that it kills the pension system.
The program, under the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation, insures pensions in case of a failure, much the way the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation guarantees bank deposits when a bank fails. It has gone from an $8 billion surplus in 2001 to a $23 billion deficit in 2004, raising questions about its long-term ability to pay retirees their pensions.
George R. Wackenhut, a former F.B.I. agent who built the Wackenhut Corporation into an international security firm that promoted the use of private guards at prisons, airports and nuclear power plants, died on Dec. 31 at his home in Vero Beach, Fla. He was 85.
The cause was heart failure, said his daughter, Janis Wackenhut Ward.
The United States said yesterday that it planned to appeal a ruling by the World Trade Organization that the country is violating its international trade obligations by prohibiting residents from gambling over the Internet.
The notice of appeal, filed in Geneva by the United States trade representative, asserts that the country's position on Internet gambling is consistent with its longstanding trade agreements. The trade representative plans to file the substance of the appeal next week with the W.T.O.
Morningstar, the investment research company that has been planning since last spring to go public, announced late yesterday that it would sell its initial shares through an unconventional auction method similar to the one used in the widely publicized Google initial public offering in August.
Joe Mansueto, the chairman and chief executive of Morningstar, said the decision was based more on principle than on publicity. ''The key benefit of an auction is equal access to shares and information. This equality resonated with us,'' Mr. Mansueto said in a statement yesterday. ''It is in keeping with our company philosophy of helping all investors -- not just large ones.''
The Supreme Court announced on Friday that it would review the criminal conviction that drove Arthur Andersen, the once-prominent accounting firm, out of business.
Over the objections of the Justice Department, the court will consider whether Andersen's prosecution for obstruction of justice -- growing out of its extensive shredding of documents related to its major client, Enron -- was a proper application of the federal witness-tampering statute, which the firm was charged with violating.
The Food and Drug Administration has approved a new form of the widely used cancer drug Taxol that is easier to administer and avoids some side effects.
The new drug, Abraxane, was approved for women with advanced breast cancer who have not responded to chemotherapy, the drug's marketer, American Pharmaceutical Partners, announced late yesterday. An F.D.A. spokeswoman confirmed the approval but had no other comment.
The Royal Dutch/Shell Group said on Friday that Judith Boynton, who was demoted as chief financial officer last year after a sharp write-down in oil reserve estimates, left the company last week with a $1 million severance package.
Ms. Boynton, who had stayed at Shell to work on special projects, left to pursue other opportunities, the company said. Her severance was paid as stipulated in her employment contract, but she will receive no bonus for 2004, or performance-related payments for 2003 or 2004, Shell said. She will, however, receive £1.32 million ($2.47 million) in pension, shares and options this year.
Procter & Gamble is about to sell ball bearings -- but not the metal kind. Its minuscule mineral spheres are designed to help usher its Olay-brand body lotions deep into the skin.
Freeze 24/7, meanwhile, is pushing the muscle relaxant GABA, or gamma-amino butyric acid, a common ingredient in over-the-counter antianxiety supplements. It is not using GABA to relax minds, however. Instead, the goal is to relax the muscles that cause face wrinkles.
While stocks fell sharply this week and the dollar rallied strongly, the bond market began the year with a muted reaction to new economic signals, indicating that the economic outlook may have changed much less for investors than the other markets may have implied.
Despite comments from Federal Reserve officials that they have grown more worried about inflation and despite suggestions that rate increases would not stop in the months ahead, bond prices fell only slightly, pushing yields up just modestly.
JACK J. BRENNAN, chairman and chief executive of the Vanguard Group, is saying, as he has many times before, that his company isn't trying to become bigger. As Mr. Brennan speaks, he chops the air with his open hand for emphasis. ''We've never had a growth objective,'' he says. ''Ever. And we never will. Vanguard's goal is to deliver value to the client. How big we are is irrelevant.''
Not pursuing bigness for its own sake is a core tenet at the company, which is based in Malvern, Pa. Even so, Vanguard's assets under management swelled during 2004; it says that some $56.4 billion flowed into the company's stock and bond funds. Through December, Vanguard, which sells its funds directly to investors, had surpassed $815 billion in assets under management. That makes it the country's second-largest mutual fund company, behind Fidelity Investments in Boston, which manages $892 billion in mutual funds and an additional $134 billion in trust assets.
SO this is what normal feels like.
Last year, for the first time in more than a decade, stock mutual funds posted gains that were in line with the historical rate of return for equities.
DON'T count on a repetition of the brilliant five-year run of emerging-markets bond funds. That is the view of many analysts, who say the funds' recent strength has been unusual.
''They have been on a tear,'' said Lynn Russell, who follows the sector for Morningstar. ''As those economies got stronger, and China wanted their commodities, those funds really did well.''
AGAIN in 2004, size wasn't an advantage in the stock market. For the sixth year in a row, mutual funds that invested in small-capitalization stocks fared better than those that owned large-cap ones. By now, some money managers say, the real bargains are in the bigger stocks. But how big do the companies need to be?
Some fund managers argue that when the market shifts in favor of large-cap stocks, the very biggest -- the 119 United States companies with market capitalizations of more than $20 billion, which are often called megacap stocks -- will benefit most.
INVESTORS stampeded into natural resources funds last year, motivated in large part by a sharp increase in oil prices.
Resources funds emphasizing energy stocks -- even those with a mandate to invest more broadly in commodity producers -- tended to have the greatest returns. But opinions vary greatly on whether this energy-dependent strategy can continue to outshine other approaches.
AFTER spending the first nine months of 2004 struggling to get off the mat, domestic stock mutual funds staged a late-round rally, gaining 10.2 percent, on average, in the fourth quarter. For the year, the average general domestic stock fund rose 11.9 percent.
Small-cap growth funds led the flurry in the quarter, rising 14 percent, on average, followed by midcap growth funds, at 13.0 percent. Small blend funds, whose stocks offer a mix of growth and value attributes, rose 12.8 percent, followed by small-cap value stocks, at 12.4 percent.
THERE is no need to worry much yet about the stock market's stumble this year.
Such inauspicious beginnings have happened before and haven't always signaled major problems. While there were 19 other years since 1945 in which the market declined in the first five trading days, in only 9 of those years did the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index wind up down for a full 52 weeks.
JUDY FORSYTH could make a payment on a luxury car for what she spends each month on stress relief.
Ms. Forsyth, a Silicon Valley computer consultant, forks over nearly $500 a month for spa treatments, massages, incense and yoga products. She has paid $160 for a game that uses biofeedback to help her meditate.
KITSON LOGUE describes Mustela putorius furo, better known as the domestic ferret, as ''a funny little guy.'' Its penchant for swiping unattended keys certainly qualifies as odd, as does its persistent musky scents, which can be lessened through regular ear-wax removal. But it is the ferret's unusual appetite that most intrigues Dr. Logue, a veterinarian who is vice president for research and development at Kaytee Products, a pet food manufacturer based in Chilton, Wis.
Unlike other mammals that are commonly lumped into the pet food industry's ''small animals'' category, ferrets have a palate more akin to a tiger's than a gerbil's. ''He's a true carnivore,'' Dr. Logue said. ''He needs a very high level of protein to help him digest.'' So in formulating the company's latest ferret treat, Kaytee's Ferret Banana Yogurt Dips, Dr. Logue had to ensure that the absence of meat would not mean an absence of taste and nutrition.
AS a mutual fund manager whose specialty is freshly minted public companies, Linda R. Killian is in the business of making risky investments. But she couldn't quite bring herself to buy shares in Marchex, an online marketing company that made its Wall Street debut last March.
Ms. Killian, a founder of Renaissance Capital, the Greenwich, Conn., firm that created the first initial public offering mutual fund, passed on Marchex because it was young -- just 14 months old at the time -- and had yet to turn a profit. ''We gave Marchex a very, very weak rating on fundamentals,'' she said.
THERE is good news for people who vow that this will be the year they put their investing lives in order. A number of new books promise to tell you how to have a better financial future.
The bad news is that not all advice is created equal.
MANY value fund managers say that it is difficult -- but by no means impossible -- to find stocks worth buying today.
''It's the toughest time that I've ever seen for finding high-quality value,'' said John Rogers Jr., chairman and chief investment officer of Ariel Capital Management in Chicago. ''We keep searching, searching, searching for ideas.''
PITY Sammy Sosa. If the Chicago Cubs dump him after his contract expires this year, Mr. Sosa, the struggling slugger, will receive only a $4.5 million buyout payment and $3.5 million in severance.
True, his send-off would be more lucrative than the one recently awarded to a group of baseball umpires: several got about $400,000 each to settle a severance dispute. And it is far better than the severance pay state officials want for 1,100 blue-collar workers at Great Northern Paper, a bankrupt company in Portland, Me. The state is suing the company's owner, seeking an average of about $23,000 for each of its former employees.
Journalists at The Philadelphia Inquirer began the new year in proper fashion, by working the phones. But some senior editors were not calling sources. They were calling readers.
On Thursday, a handful of top editors, including the executive editor, Amanda Bennett, began making personal phone calls to former subscribers, many of whom dropped the paper this year after The Inquirer ran a series of editorials favoring John F. Kerry for president.
Few topics inspire trips to the crystal ball like technology, although hasty predictions have often only provided future generations with quotes for cocktail party chat.
Ken Olson, founder of the Digital Equipment Corporation, remarked in 1977, for instance, that there was no reason anyone would want a computer in their home. And Harry M. Warner, a co-founder of Warner Brothers Studios, is well known for wondering, near the end of the silent-picture era, who would want to hear actors talk.
NEITHER the outcry over the content of Super Bowl commercials last year nor the fallout from the episode involving Janet Jackson during the halftime show have deterred a lengthy list of blue-chip marketers from signing up as sponsors this year.
Still, the advertisers, which are paying record prices to appear during the game to be broadcast by Fox on Feb. 6, are paying close attention to the tone and tenor of their commercials. The marketers, which include Anheuser-Busch, Ford Motor, General Motors and McDonald's, are anxious to avoid a repeat of the vociferous complaints generated by last year's spots. Some were centered on erectile dysfunction, while others featured characters like a flatulent horse, a crotch-biting dog, a Scotsman who wore nothing under his kilt, a male monkey wooing a human female, an elderly couple fighting over a bag of potato chips and a man who mistakenly underwent a bikini-wax treatment.
FIVE years ago, ProFlowers, an online florist based in San Diego, pumped $500,000 into market and technology research that would, the company hoped, help it move quickly into Europe and Japan. Within just a few months, staying in the United States market suddenly seemed much more appealing.
''We naïvely assumed that everybody would look at the Internet and see it the same way,'' said Bill Strauss, chief executive of Provide Commerce, the parent company of ProFlowers. ''But consumer behavior was absolutely different.''
Marie Kurth does not subscribe to The Denver Post, but that did not stop the paper from being tossed haphazardly in front of her century-old red-brick home each Sunday beginning in October.
''It was everywhere. It was on the walk, it was on the public walk, in the yard, and that I don't care for,'' said Ms. Kurth, who is 81 and lives in northwest Denver.
All Robert Herron wanted from the concierge at the Doubletree Hotel in Savannah, Ga., were directions to the Lady & Sons, a popular seafood restaurant. What he got was an aggressive pitch to dine elsewhere. And when he declined, he was sent to the wrong address.
''I have never experienced anything like it,'' said Mr. Herron, a general contractor from Fernley, Nev. ''The concierge was very polite but pushy about these other restaurants. I began to suspect that there might be some kind of arrangement with those places; maybe he or the hotel was getting a referral fee or some kind of kickback. Otherwise, why would he be so insistent?''
President Bush said last month that for his personal health coverage he was choosing a new option, a health savings account. But most people are wary of these accounts because they do not want to risk having to spend more on their medical bills, according to a survey to be published today.
Health savings accounts, which combine low monthly premiums with a requirement that individuals pay out of pocket for the first $1,000 of health costs each year, were introduced last year under a provision of the 2003 Medicare law. But only a handful of employers have begun to offer the accounts, and very few employees have chosen them.
Two British private equity companies are bidding jointly to buy Amadeus Global Travel Distribution, Europe's leading travel reservation company, for the equivalent of $5.7 billion. The deal could be completed this week, people close to the transaction said on Monday.
The battle for the company has been going on since last year with several suitors maneuvering to buy Amadeus, which is based in Madrid.
Comcast plans to offer Internet-based phone service in 20 of its markets by the end of the year as it works to catch up to its competitors, including Time Warner Cable and Cablevision, which already offer the service.
Comcast, the nation's biggest cable provider with 21 million subscribers, will make Internet phone service available to all its customers by the end of 2006, according to the company's chief executive, Brian L. Roberts, who spoke at an investor conference. The company expects to sign up eight million subscribers for the service by 2010.
Following are excerpts from a report by a panel convened by CBS to investigate a Sept. 8 broadcast about President Bush's Vietnam-era service in the Texas Air National Guard. The report was based in part on documents said to be taken from the files of Lt. Col. Jerry B. Killian, who was the commander of the squadron in which the president served from May 1968 to October 1973. The authenticity of those documents has been called into question. In response to the report, Viacom, the network's parent company, dismissed Mary Mapes, the longtime producer who had prepared the segment. It also demanded the resignations of three executives who had overseen the segment: Betsy West, a senior vice president and a top deputy to Andrew Heyward, president of CBS News; Josh Howard, the executive producer of the Wednesday edition of ''60 Minutes''; and Mary Murphy, his deputy.
Executive Summary
Alltel, the nation's sixth-largest wireless carrier, announced formally yesterday that it had agreed to buy Western Wireless, a regional carrier in the Northwest, in a deal worth about $6 billion in cash, stock and debt.
The deal, which is expected to close by midyear, will create a company with about $10 billion in sales and 9.8 million subscribers, or about 6 percent of the cellphone market. Combined, the companies' networks will cover 55 percent of the United States by area and reach 25 percent of the population.
Rupert Murdoch's announcement yesterday that his News Corporation would take full control of the Fox Entertainment Group sent a signal that he does not feel pressured to resolve his dispute with John C. Malone's Liberty Media Corporation before pushing ahead with other deals.
Many analysts and investors had expected that Mr. Murdoch would settle the conflict over Liberty's voting interest in the News Corporation before buying out Fox. But Mr. Murdoch went ahead yesterday and said that he would buy the 18 percent of Fox that his company did not own, in a deal worth about $6 billion.
The Texas Pacific Group, after fighting to keep secret 700 pages of documents about its proposed purchase of Portland General Electric, reversed course yesterday and said it would make the documents public. The decision came after an alternative newspaper, Willamette Week, obtained most of the documents for an article published last week.
Nearly every major economic interest in Oregon opposes the purchase, but until now these groups could say little about their reasons for joining consumer groups in opposing the deal because the Oregon Public Utility Commission issued a broad secrecy order at Texas Pacific's request.
Thom Calandra, a former columnist for CBS MarketWatch.com, will pay more than $540,000 to settle federal regulators' charges that he used an investment newsletter to pump up the price of penny stocks he owned before selling them.
In a complaint filed yesterday, the Securities and Exchange Commission accused Mr. Calandra of using The Calandra Report, an Internet investment newsletter, to promote the thinly traded stocks of 23 companies, without disclosing that he owned them, and then went on to sell them for a gain of more than $405,000. Mr. Calandra also failed to tell his readers that he received heavily discounted shares in two mining companies when he recommended them in the newsletter before selling them for a large profit, the complaint said.
On Dec. 25, President Fidel Castro said he had some information to lift the spirits of Cuba's 11 million people: two Canadian energy companies, Pebercan and Sherritt International, had discovered oil in the Gulf of Mexico in an area under Cuba's control.
Mr. Castro, in an announcement that raised eyebrows in the executive suites of energy companies here, disclosed that the Canadian companies had discovered estimated reserves of 100 million barrels. That was the good news. It was also the bad news.
Treasury Secretary John W. Snow began a three-day sales effort on Monday to drum up Wall Street support for President Bush's plans to overhaul Social Security.
Despite what some see as the potential boon to the stock market from allowing younger employees to invest part of their Social Security tax payments in personal accounts, many Wall Street economists are dubious about the costs. Administration officials acknowledge that their plan could require the government to borrow as much as $2 trillion over the next two decades, to pay for costs during a transition period when the government still has to pay full benefits to existing retirees.
It is the opening line on so many phone conversations these days: This call may be monitored for quality assurance purposes.
The taped message is so common that many callers might assume that no one is ever listening, let alone taking notes. But they would be wrong.
Three years after declaring the biggest sovereign debt default in history, Argentina will begin a global roadshow today, hoping to persuade wary investors to accept a write-down on about $100 billion of holdings. Many analysts and lending officials say that Argentina may succeed.
The campaign will start at the Economy Ministry in Buenos Aires, where Roberto Lavagna, the minister of economy and production, will outline the remaining details of what the Argentine government insists is its final offer to repay part of the defaulted debt. From there, officials will travel to the United States and Europe to push for the proposal with foreign bondholders, many of whom have already criticized the idea in outline form.
The prosecution's closing argument yesterday in the securities fraud trial of Anthony Elgindy and Jeffrey A. Royer focused on the questions posed at the start: Were Mr. Elgindy, a controversial Internet stock guru, and Mr. Royer, a former F.B.I. agent, crime-fighting crusaders for integrity in the marketplace? Or were they crusaders for personal gain?
Seth Levine, an assistant United States attorney, left little doubt about where the government stood. ''There was no crusade here,'' Mr. Levine told the jury. ''They were not crime-fighting heroes. They weren't called on the Batphone because the commissioner couldn't handle the crime. They were mercenaries.''
The clinical trial was a small one in Germany dealing with an increasingly rare medical problem. But Johnson & Johnson hopes the results, published late yesterday in The Journal of the American Medical Association, will aid its drive to erode Boston Scientific's dominance in the $5 billion market for drug-coated stents.
Stents are mesh cylinders inserted in blood vessels to prop them open after blockages are cleared. The new report studied the small subset of patients who receive a bare metal stent but need further treatment after new blockages develop within their stent.
Intel, the world's largest computer chip maker, reported strong demand for its products on Tuesday, a day after a main Silicon Valley rival, Advanced Micro Devices, warned that it expected to report lower profits because of a price war with Intel in the flash memory market.
Intel said that its revenue was up nearly 10 percent in the fourth quarter, to $9.6 billion, while its profit dipped slightly, to $2.1 billion, or 33 cents a share, compared with $2.2 billion, also 33 cents, in the quarter a year earlier.
With residential values rising and tourists swarming, shoppers filled stores in large numbers last year. In turn, retail rents were up strongly in most parts of Manhattan last year, according to real estate executives.
''Last year was the best for retail real estate since 1999,'' said Faith H. Consolo, vice chairwoman of Garrick-Aug, a brokerage firm specializing in retail spaces. ''Two thousand one, 2002 and 2003 were a struggle; there were fewer deals and the transactions took longer. But the first quarter of 2004 got off to a jump start and never slowed down.''
Apple Computer introduced its first low-priced Macintosh on Tuesday, signaling its bet that most consumers now see computers as simply another appliance in the modern house.
While computers have long been sold as machines that can turn a home into an office, most Americans now use them in their bedrooms and kitchens as e-mail terminals; as hubs for playing music, storing and editing photos; and as stations for navigating the Web.
In separate closing arguments yesterday, lawyers for Anthony Elgindy and Jeffrey A. Royer tried to chip away at prosecutors' accusations that the two men worked together in an elaborate securities fraud.
Mr. Elgindy, a controversial stock adviser, and Mr. Royer, a former F.B.I. agent, are at the center of a complex fraud case that has played out in Federal District Court in Brooklyn over the last nine weeks. Mr. Royer is accused of providing Mr. Elgindy and his associates with confidential information about investigations of companies, and Mr. Elgindy is charged with using that information to profit when those companies' stocks fell.
After just two months on the job, Brian Anderson, the chief financial officer of OfficeMax, resigned yesterday, less than a month after the company announced that it had uncovered improprieties in the way it accounted for rebates from a large supplier. Analysts said they believed the resignation was voluntary.
OfficeMax also said yesterday that it would delay the release of its fourth-quarter earnings, scheduled for Jan. 20, and that it expected to complete an internal inquiry into its accounting by the third week of February. The company has also said it would delay a planned buyback of about $800 million of its stock.
Eleven Army officers at Fort Benning, Ga., have been disciplined for allowing life insurance agents to give improper classroom sales pitches to hundreds of trainees at the base last spring, in violation of military rules, according to the base legal office.
The base commander, Brig. Gen. Benjamin C. Freakley, has also ordered a broad training initiative ''to make sure that each soldier is personally aware of the obligation to prevent and report unauthorized solicitation'' by commercial vendors on base, said Lt. Col. Ralph Tremaglio, the base's deputy staff judge advocate.
Take two statins and call me in the morning.
That twist on the old advice from the doctor could soon be possible, if two giant drug companies get their wish.
On a clear day at an Air Force base in Nevada, as a test pilot steered his F/A-22 skyward, the nose of the plane inexplicably turned down, pitching the $250 million fighter jet into the ground.
The pilot, luckily, walked away unscathed. But the crash last Dec. 20 was not only a blow to Air Force pride but also, as it turned out, a bad omen. Days later, Defense Secretary Donald H. Rumsfeld confirmed reports that the Pentagon planned to cut the number of F/A-22's it would buy by about a third, sending shock waves through the Air Force.
Jay Schulberg, the advertising executive who made milk hip by putting creamy mustaches on the famous and beautiful, died in Doylestown, Pa., on Jan. 12. He was 65, and until recently was a resident of Solebury, Pa.
The cause was pancreatic cancer, said his wife, Kathryn, who survives him.
Concerned that its proposed merger with the Adolph Coors Company might be rejected by its shareholders, Molson increased a special dividend by 67 percent late Thursday.
The dividend, which will be paid to all shareholders except a Molson family holding company, was increased by 2.18 Canadian dollars to 5.44 Canadian dollars a share. The dividend will be paid only if the merger is approved by a two-thirds majority at a shareholders' meeting that has been rescheduled to Jan. 28 from next week.
WHO says the United States cannot compete? Trade statistics may indicate the country is slipping in technology, but we're still tops in trash.
In the late 1990's, those who counseled Americans not to be worried about the growing trade deficit pointed to ''advanced technology products'' -- a category tracked by the government that reflects what it calls leading-edge technologies. The United States was running a sizable trade surplus in that area, and shipments of those products were rising much more rapidly than other exports.
Martha Stewart is in prison. Richard M. Scrushy, former chief executive of HealthSouth, is sitting through jury selection at his fraud trial. Next week, Bernard J. Ebbers, the former head of WorldCom, will do the same in a court in Manhattan, as will L. Dennis Kozlowski, the former Tyco chief being retried on grand larceny charges. And if all goes according to plan, later this year Enron's top managers, including Kenneth L. Lay, its former chairman, will be on trial in Houston, charged with a raft of crimes related to that company's demise.
It must seem, at least to courthouse watchers, that the sweeping effort to clean up corporate America begun over three years ago in the aftermath of the Enron collapse is still going strong, perhaps even picking up steam. But in the boardroom and executive suites, away from the gavels and juries, a different tale has begun to emerge.
Nearly the size of an old station wagon, a bright orange machine here mashes plastic pellets into rows of six-inch-long blue clips for hospitals across the United States. Pan Guotao, a 29-year-old worker from a village in northern China, sits on a plastic stool next to the machine and wields a straight razor to slice apart the clips, which are used to hold ice packs in plastic sleeves.
It looks like a simple operation, but it lies at the heart of the American trade deficit with China.
In a final attempt to refute the claims of the two defendants, prosecutors argued yesterday that there was ''overwhelming evidence'' that the two, Anthony Elgindy and Jeffrey A. Royer, were working together to commit securities fraud and not to expose corporate crime.
Mr. Elgindy, a controversial Internet stock trader, is accused of receiving confidential government information from Mr. Royer, a former F.B.I. agent, and using it in an elaborate stock-selling scheme.
TNK-BP, the Russian oil company, showed stockholders on Friday its long-awaited plan to begin melding its more than a dozen subsidiaries into one overarching company. The plan set TNK-BP's value at no less than $18.5 billion.
Shareholders in TNK-BP, the British-Russian joint venture that is powering BP's growth, have been anxiously awaiting details of the restructuring. They will have a choice of swapping their shares for new stock in the umbrella company, or being bought out.
One week after completing its contentious takeover of PeopleSoft, Oracle on Friday began sending layoff notices to some of the 11,700 employees working at its former rival.
Oracle said in a five-paragraph statement, released after the market closed, that it was laying off 5,000 employees, or nearly 10 percent of the combined Oracle-PeopleSoft work force.
Gene S. Kahn, the chairman and chief executive of May Department Stores, resigned under pressure yesterday, six months after he led a $3.2 billion purchase of the Marshall Field's chain.
A search to fill the position will begin immediately, according to a company news release, and will encompass ''both internal and external candidates.''
A major airline union called on the Transportation Department yesterday to convene a summit meeting of management, labor and consumer groups to find ways to help the struggling industry.
The request came in a letter to the transportation secretary, Norman Y. Mineta, from Robert Roach Jr., vice president for transportation at the International Association of Machinists and Aerospace Workers, which represents more than 100,000 mechanics, baggage handlers and ramp workers at the major airlines.
The Boeing Company said yesterday that it would take a $615 million pretax write-off as it ends production of the 717, its smallest commercial jet, and faces delays in a $23 billion Air Force aerial tanker program.
Boeing, which is based in Chicago, said the write-off, which comes to 48 cents a share, would be reflected in its fourth-quarter and year-end 2004 earnings, scheduled to be released Feb. 2. Losses related to the tanker program came to $275 million, the amount of money the company has spent on its Air Force bid, while Boeing expects that ceasing production of the 717 will result in a loss of $340 million.
Charter Communications, the cable company controlled by Microsoft's co-founder Paul G. Allen, is struggling to hang on to subscribers even as it is weighed down by a hefty $19 billion in debt. Charter continues to lose tens of millions of dollars, and its stock trades at a mere $2 a share.
But the company has regained the confidence of once-skeptical lenders. Indeed, lenders are so confident, they have bid Charter's $6.5 billion in loans at 100.25 percent of face value, even though there is no chance lenders will get more than 100 cents back. That is up from a price of just 83 cents on the dollar less than three years ago.
The most important part of Linda Mason's new job at CBS News may well be making sure that old rules are followed.
In the next few weeks Ms. Mason, who oversaw the revision of CBS's news-gathering policies in 1999, will assume the title of senior vice president for standards and practices. The promotion is part of CBS News's response to the conclusions of an independent panel's investigation of how CBS came to broadcast a report that the network later had to repudiate, on President Bush's National Guard service.
A Food and Drug Administration advisory panel recommended against the over-the-counter sale of a Merck cholesterol-lowering drug, saying that while millions of Americans could benefit from taking it, they should not begin such a regimen without a doctor's advice.
The F.D.A. typically heeds such recommendations, meaning that the drug industry has been at least temporarily thwarted from creating a new segment of the drug market. But Merck and its partner in the application, Johnson & Johnson, said they would continue trying to win approval.
AFTER the blizzard of high-profile corporate-executive trials last year that featured Martha Stewart, Frank P. Quattrone and John J. Rigas, Americans might be forgiven for saying ''enough!''
But, like it or not, the frenzy is likely to start anew on Tuesday, when the government begins its case against Bernard J. Ebbers, the former C.E.O. of WorldCom.
NATURAL disasters often provoke sharp stock market declines where they occur, usually followed by recoveries that are almost as intense. Ten years ago this week, the Kobe earthquake in Japan sent stocks there tumbling 5 percent before they snapped back.
The Sri Lankan market followed a similar path after a tsunami struck on Dec. 26, but it was the exception. Despite the huge devastation, other markets in southern Asia had no big gyrations, and ended the ensuing week flat to higher.
CORPORATE earnings season is upon us -- but is earnings news what the stock market needs right now?
Given the optimism that characterized the market rebound at the end of last year and the positive consensus for earnings in the last three months of 2004, the answer should be yes.
AT the celebrity-packed wedding of Star Jones Reynolds, the television talk show host, last November, Calvin R. Darden Jr. seemed on top of his game. With his flashing smile and his perpetually trilling cellphones, Mr. Darden, a 30-year-old stockbroker, worked the reception area at the Waldorf-Astoria -- huddling with Dave Winfield, the former baseball star, bantering with Samuel L. Jackson, the actor, and introducing the actress Angela Bassett, a former client, to a friend of his.
For Mr. Darden, who knew the groom, Al Scales Reynolds, from their early days as Merrill Lynch brokers, it was the same heady blend of celebrity glitz and Wall Street money that had fueled his rapid career ascent.
''You know anyone who thinks this stuff lasts and is permanent, to me, is an idiot,'' said George Clooney, as he tumbled onto the leather couch in his Hollywood Hills home two weeks ago, a shower of raindrops falling on the swimming pool outside his living room window.
Mr. Clooney was as somber as the Southern California weather then, far from the 43-year-old cocktail-sipping party host and celebrity prankster so popular in tabloid magazines. Perhaps it was the recent back surgery that left him with two rows of stitches along his spine and too many ruminations on his advancing age.
After a fall littered with failed reality shows like ''The Will'' on CBS and ''My Big Fat Obnoxious Boss'' on Fox, NBC's ''The Contender,'' which is carrying the largest price tag of any new reality show ever, more than $2 million an episode, is certain to be greeted with skepticism.
How it fares could ultimately affect the commitment by networks to future reality programs. And yet the show is seemingly being used as cannon fodder.
India's prime minister warned on Sunday that China had moved ahead in securing worldwide oil and natural gas supplies, the bluntest expression yet of energy worries among Indian leaders. In the last two weeks, they have pursued a series of energy deals that have surprised global markets.
''I find China ahead of us in planning for the future in the field of energy security,'' Prime Minister Manmohan Singh said in a speech here at the convention of India's oil and gas industry. ''We can no longer be complacent and must learn to think strategically, to think ahead, and to act swiftly and decisively.''
There was a time when researching a high school or college term paper was a far simpler thing. A student writing about, say, Count Ferdinand von Zeppelin, might have checked out a book on the history of aviation from the local library or tucked into the family's dog-eared Britannica. An ambitious college freshman might have augmented the research by looking up some old newspaper clips on microfilm or picking up a monograph in the stacks.
Today, in a matter of minutes, students can identify these and thousands of other potential resources on the Internet -- and, as any teacher will attest, they are not always adept at sorting the wheat from the chaff.
After months of hard bargaining, TiVo reached an agreement last summer to offer its pioneering video recording system to customers of the Comcast cable system, according to several people involved in the discussions.
It was potentially a critical deal for TiVo, because Comcast is by far the biggest cable system and also because control of DirecTV, the satellite system that has been the biggest distributor of TiVo, had been bought by the News Corporation, which also owns a TiVo rival.
When the American Bar Association sought a site for the president's reception during its annual meeting a few years ago, it chose the Tower of London, the palace and fortress for every British monarch from William the Conqueror in the 11th century to Henry VIII in the 16th.
The 3,000 lawyers and their guests dined outdoors on the Tower grounds and were entertained by the Band of Her Majesty's Welsh Guard, minstrels in Stuart-era costume performing on period instruments, and costumed singers of Tudor music. The lawyers and their spouses were also treated to private tours of the palace and viewings of the Crown Jewels, not to mention a demonstration of swordplay by knights in 15th-century armor.
Nearly five years after it opened in an old Guinness brewery building, Media Lab Europe, a research institution set up during the height of the dot-com boom by the Irish government and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, will close because of a chronic shortfall in financing.
Media Lab Europe failed to attract enough private-sector sponsorships, deals under which a company would typically pay 160,000 euros ($209,000) to gain access to the lab's research in areas as diverse as online communities and electronic musical instruments played with hand gestures.
Few executives have helped create and then watched the destruction of as much wealth as Bernard J. Ebbers, the former chief executive of WorldCom.
With resolve and salesmanship, but little training in finance or engineering, Mr. Ebbers built one of the world's largest telecommunications companies -- at its peak worth $160 billion. Now, with WorldCom in tatters, he stands accused of masterminding a record $11 billion accounting fraud that toppled the company he created and left investors, former employees and others to pick up the pieces.
China's leaders once tapped Hainan, this small sunny island off the southern coast of China, to be one of five experimental laboratories for capitalism. Hainan was supposed to compete to become a new Hong Kong, even a future Singapore.
But more than a decade later, even as China's hot economy bubbles over with success in places like Shanghai and Shenzhen, Hainan is, well, still an experiment, like a lone laggard.
Last year was a banner year for the steel industry. Steel companies consolidated and reorganized while demand soared, pushing up prices for steel -- and for steel company stocks. Indeed, the Goldman Sachs index of steel companies was up 40 percent last year, with many of the stocks hitting record highs.
''No question, but price hike announcements sent steel stocks way up,'' said Mark Mousseau, a research analyst at Thomson Financial.
The video game industry enjoyed record sales in 2004, despite a shortage of game consoles over the holiday season, according to figures released yesterday.
The data from NPD Funworld, a market research firm, showed that United States sales of video game consoles, portable devices and the games made for those platforms were $9.9 billion in 2004. That figure is slightly below the overall sales figure of $10 billion in 2003. However, the 2004 figure does not yet include sales of games for personal computers. When those sales are included in a report due in the next few days, overall sales for the year will be a record, NPD said.
After last year's record-breaking rally, crude oil prices might surge again this year if global demand does not slow, because the world still lacks sufficient production and refining capacity, the International Energy Agency said in its monthly report.
Consumption this year is expected to grow 1.7 percent, about half of last year's 3.3 percent growth. But an unexpected spike in demand from China or sudden cuts in global supplies could send the price soaring again while production, pipelines and refineries remain very tight, said the agency, a Paris-based advisory group to 26 industrialized countries.
A barrage of lawsuits has been filed against mutual funds, contending that they did not claim money due their investors from settlements of securities class-action lawsuits.
The complaints, filed in federal courts across the country, have named more than 40 fund managers, including Merrill Lynch, Vanguard, Wells Fargo, Janus and Dreyfus, accusing them of violating their fiduciary duty to investors by failing to file claims for money from settlements of shareholder lawsuits.
Few dispute the need to move America's costly, fragmented health system from paper records and prescriptions into the computer age.
Converting to digital records, health authorities agree, would reduce medical errors and improve efficiency, saving both lives and dollars.
Joelle Hilfers realized she and her husband, Tom, had put off computerizing their Top Dog Daycare business in Colorado Springs long enough. Sticky notes affixed to customers' cards with due dates for their pets' shots kept disappearing, and the cards themselves were often misfiled, leading to frantic searches for emergency contact information. Customers could not fathom that they were dealing with a paper, pen and telephone operation.
''A lot of people were saying, 'Well, just e-mail me, e-mail me!''' Ms. Hilfers said. ''I thought, there's just got to be a better way to keep organized and keep in contact.''
Patients taking Plavix, a popular and expensive antistroke drug, experience more than 12 times as many ulcers as patients who take aspirin plus a heartburn pill, a study to be published today in The New England Journal of Medicine found.
Up to half of those now taking Plavix do so because their doctors assume that Plavix is safer on the stomach than aspirin, said Dr. Francis K.L. Chan, the study's lead author. Both the American College of Cardiology and the American Heart Association recommend that heart and stroke patients at risk of developing ulcers be given Plavix instead of aspirin.
The Ketchum public relations agency has reversed course, apologizing for paying a company owned by the conservative commentator Armstrong Williams to promote the Bush administration's educational policies. The agency also promised to change its policies to prevent another such ''lapse in judgment.''
The apology, in a statement released Tuesday night, came after two weeks of criticism. The critics said Ketchum compromised industry ethical standards by not disclosing that it paid the Graham Williams Group $240,000 on behalf of a client, the Education Department, to have Mr. Williams praise the No Child Left Behind Act on his television show and in his newspaper column. Mr. Williams acknowledged the payments after they were disclosed by USA Today on Jan. 7.
Two employees accused the Marubeni America Corporation, a subsidiary of the Marubeni Corporation of Japan, of employment discrimination, failure to pay overtime and accounting fraud in a civil complaint filed yesterday in Federal District Court in Manhattan.
The two employees, Kevin Long, senior vice president and general manager for human resources, and Ludvic Presto, senior vice president and general manager of the audit team, were both placed on paid administrative leave from the company last month. They are asking the court to find severance agreements -- which call for payment of more than $4 million to each plaintiff -- valid and enforceable. They also seek additional money damages and an order that Marubeni America cease to discriminate in its treatment of employees.
The former chief executive of ImClone Systems, Samuel D. Waksal, and his father, Jack, closed the book on an insider trading case by agreeing to a final settlement yesterday with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Under the agreement, Samuel Waksal will pay a $3 million penalty, and his father will return $2 million in profits. The two men neither admitted nor denied any allegations.
Samuel Waksal is currently serving seven years in federal prison for violations of federal laws ranging from obstruction of justice to perjury related to his decision to sell ImClone stock in 2001 before news that the government would not approve a cancer-fighting drug made by the company.
Malcolm Brachman, a Texas businessman and onetime nuclear physicist who was among the first bridge enthusiasts to finance his own team, died on Jan. 11 at his daughter's home in Chapel Hill, N.C. He was 78 and until recently a Dallas resident.
The cause was complications of pancreatic cancer, said Lisa Brachman, his daughter.
Taser International has warned police departments that its newest electric stun gun, the X26, recently failed to subdue some suspects.
As a result, the company has decided to increase the power of the weapon by about 14 percent. The change is intended to make the gun more effective, according to a bulletin the company has sent to police departments.
TALK about fast food. The sandwich developed for Burger King by the winning team on the episode of ''The Apprentice'' that ran last night on NBC will go on sale today at 7,800 restaurants around the country.
The addition of the Western Angus Steak Burger sandwich to the Burger King menu underscores how the integration of sponsors into episodes of ''The Apprentice'' is being intensified as the series starts its third season. The goal of brands like Burger King in affiliating with ''The Apprentice,'' normally shown on Thursday nights, is to stimulate product sales over busy shopping weekends as well as to generate interest and word-of-mouth around the water cooler on Friday mornings.
The Sony Corporation warned on Thursday that sales and operating profit would probably fall short of its forecasts because of rapidly declining prices for DVD recorders and video cameras, as well as stiff competition from Apple's popular iPod.
Sony, one of Japan's best-known electronics companies, now expects an operating profit of 110 billion yen ($1.07 billion) for the fiscal year ending March 31, it said, compared with an earlier forecast of 160 billion yen, a decrease of about 30 percent. Sony also trimmed its forecast for revenue for the year to 7.15 trillion yen ($69.6 billion ) from 7.35 trillion yen. The company raised its net income forecast, but only because of tax savings in its United States operation.
The European Union announced on Friday that it was lifting sanctions on American products now that Congress has repealed tax cuts for exporters that were declared illegal by the World Trade Organization.
Lifting the sanctions also helps improve the atmosphere for President Bush's visit to Europe next month.
Under a hot desert sun this week near the Mexican border, Col. Robert Groller watched a transport truck with a prototype suspension system speed across an off-road course.
Colonel Groller, one of the Army officers who oversees Humvees and larger transport trucks, was in the middle of the Army's Yuma Proving Ground, a sprawling expanse of desert larger than Rhode Island. He got right to the point.
Regulators are reviewing the safety of the Alzheimer's disease drug Reminyl after data from two clinical trials indicated that people taking the drug had a much higher death rate than those taking a placebo.
The review was announced yesterday by Johnson & Johnson, which said it was in discussions with the Food and Drug Administration and regulators in Europe and Canada.
The stock market fell for its third consecutive week as rising oil prices and declining consumer confidence deepened the slump of 2005.
There has not been a week of net gains for the market since the year began. On Friday, crude oil prices in New York reached $48.53 a barrel, the highest since Nov. 30, and the University of Michigan's consumer confidence index showed a decline for December. Both factors weighed on the market.
IMAGINE how new retirees might respond if, in return for a lump-sum payment, a reputable insurance company promised to send them a sizable check every month for the rest of their lives.
It would come with a yield that was better than prevailing market interest rates, and, as an option, retirees could guarantee that their initial payment was returned entirely, either to them or their heirs. Better yet, there would be no direct sales commission.
THE shares of Fidelity Federal Bancorp have always been thinly traded, and its executives often wondered why it bothered to be a public company at all. Still, they never really considered delisting the stock until Congress passed the Sarbanes-Oxley law, with its myriad new reporting rules, in 2002.
In November, the bank announced that it was ''going dark'' -- delisting its stock from the Nasdaq market. That means it will no longer need to file reports with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
SOME precious-metals analysts may be wondering about their job security.
To get a fix on the price of gold, they examine mine production, estimate the recycling of gold scrap, weigh the demand for gold jewelry, assess investor interest in gold bars and coins and keep an eye on inflation.
LAUREN ZIEJA, a store security manager in Pompton Lakes, N.J., lives where she always has: with Mom and Dad. They don't ask her to pay rent, for groceries or any other household expenses. Therefore, Ms. Zieja, 28, socks away $600 to $1,000 a month toward an eventual departure from the roost.
Last year, she sprang a nice surprise on her parents: a hot tub. ''It's certainly nothing we asked for,'' said her mother, Clarice Zieja, 54. ''It was her way of saying, 'Thanks, Mom and Dad.'''
WHEN Johnson & Johnson announced its $25 billion acquisition of Guidant last month, an assortment of Wall Street investment banks and law firms lined up to take credit, as they always do, for all the hard work they had done behind the scenes.
There were the usual suspects: Goldman Sachs; Cravath, Swaine & Moore; Linklaters; and Weil, Gotshal & Manges all worked for Johnson & Johnson. In the Guidant camp were J.P. Morgan Chase; Morgan Stanley; Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom; and Wachtell, Lipton Rosen & Katz.
MARILYN FREEMAN fondly remembers being treated like royalty by the American Airlines crew on her honeymoon flight to Hawaii 30 years ago. Just out of college, she and her husband, Gary, were pampered with Champagne and personal attention from the flight attendants. ''It was a privileged situation,'' she recalled.
These days, she said, her biggest treat on business trips is finding an empty seat next to her. And Mrs. Freeman, 51, the co-founder of an investment firm in Stamford, Conn., is similarly amazed when flights arrive or depart on schedule. Flying in the current airline environment, she said, ''isn't pretty; it isn't fun; it isn't pleasant.''
HIS hair is white and stringy, his beard thick and snowy in the fashion of a hermit who decided long ago to park himself high atop a mountain. He's a touch shy, a self-deprecating man who describes himself as never before lucky in life.
John L. Kingery knows that he is not the sort you would expect to find here sipping a cocktail inside a high-roller suite at the Mirage. Nor were most of the 15 or so others who descended on the hotel this month to toast their collective wisdom -- and the millions they had collectively made -- in buying shares of Audible Inc., an Internet stock so beaten down that for a time it could be found only in the netherworld of penny-stock trading boards.
To the Editor:
''After Writing a Will, You Still Have I's to Dot'' (Jan. 2), offered helpful information to guide readers to attend to the details of their estates, beyond the preparation of documents. In 34 years of administering estates for clients, I have learned that it is more often the $5 vase than the $50,000 savings account that results in family disputes.
Texas Instruments will announce today that it has integrated most of the computing functions of a mobile phone onto a single microchip, an innovation that may lead to lower manufacturing costs and improvements like longer battery life and higher data transfer rates.
The company plans to have the more integrated semiconductor widely available by the middle of 2006, making it the first major manufacturer to produce an integrated cellphone chip for the mass market, according to industry analysts.
When L. Gordon Crovitz, the president of Dow Jones & Company's electronic publishing division, sat down last spring to assemble a three-year strategic plan, one of the things he foresaw was a potentially costly gap about to open. If the demand for online advertising continued to grow, Dow Jones's Web sites, including The Wall Street Journal Online, would not provide enough page views for all the online ads the company could sell.
''That is a wonderful problem to have,'' Mr. Crovitz said, ''but you don't want to have that problem if you can avoid it.''
When top executives in broadcast radio recently banded together to promote their stations in the face of growing competition from satellite radio, they called on stars like Avril Lavigne and Ludacris to appear in advertisements. Not to be outdone, Sirius Satellite Radio countered by enlisting a music executive.
Sirius has struck an exclusive pact to sign Jimmy Iovine, chairman of Interscope Records, as a consultant and adviser in the development of programming and marketing arrangements. Scott Greenstein, the Sirius president for entertainment and sports, has begun discussing similar deals with other top music executives.
Telecom Italia on Sunday to proceed with its planned 21 billion euro ($27.3 billion) takeover of Telecom Italia Mobile. The deal, when completed, will end the mobile company's 10-year existence as an independently listed company.
Telecom Italia Mobile's shareholders had until Friday to sell their stock to Telecom Italia, which officially accepted two-thirds of the outstanding shares after a board meeting on Sunday. With the shares acquired in the takeover, Telecom Italia, Italy's former phone monopoly, will increase its stake in Telecom Italia Mobile to 85 percent, from 56 percent. The 15 percent of Telecom Italia Mobile shares still publicly traded will be exchanged for newly created Telecom Italia shares as part of the merger.
Marcos Velasco, a 32-year-old Brazilian software developer, enjoys movies with special effects, maintains a vast collection of antique computers in his home and is the proud father of two young children and one mobile phone virus, which he named after himself: Velasco.
Computer security experts around the world have given his virus and its variants more toxic-sounding names like ''Lasco.A,'' ''Symbos--Vlasco.A'' or simply ''the Lasco virus.'' They are also calling it stupid.
Krispy Kreme Doughnuts said yesterday that it had agreed to pay its two new top officers hourly rates of $760 and $695, as well as paying a possible bonus it they succeed in turning around the financially troubled company.
But the company did not say whether it had secured a further extension from bank lenders who could declare the company in default on its loans, threatening a bankruptcy protection filing.
Johnny Carson was a seminal figure in the evolution of television advertising. His death on Sunday came as Madison Avenue is re-examining its past -- as symbolized by Mr. Carson's four decades as a pitchman, endorser and spokesman -- to determine the future of what is being called branded entertainment.
Advertisers seeing their messages increasingly zapped by viewers using TiVo and other digital video recorders are searching for methods to reach viewers during the programs themselves, like placing products inside shows and making them intrinsic parts of a plot.
Google and Yahoo are introducing services that will let users search through television programs based on words spoken on the air. The services will look for keywords in the closed captioning information that is encoded in many programs, mainly as an aid to deaf viewers.
Google's service, scheduled to be introduced today, does not actually permit people to watch the video on their computers. Instead, it presents them with short excerpts of program transcripts with text matching their search queries and a single image from the program. Google records TV programs for use in the service.
Antitrust investigators at the Justice Department have begun examining a proposed acquisition by the Gannett Company, the country's largest newspaper publisher, as the industry appears headed for further consolidation this year.
In a separate case, the department has also received a letter from The Boston Herald contending that a planned investment by The New York Times Company in Boston Metro, a free daily newspaper mainly for commuters, would violate antitrust law and hurt advertisers and readers.
When Eric J. Topol, one of the nation's most prominent medical researchers, sought her advice after coming under pressure for his corporate ties, Catherine D. DeAngelis, editor in chief of The Journal of the American Medical Association, said she was straightforward.
''I said, 'If you're smart, just give it all up,''' she recalled. '''I don't know how much you get, but whatever it is, it's not worth it.'''
The Pentagon said yesterday that commercial airlines were flying more than double the number of troops overseas this month as they were a year ago, a reason the government expects to spend 15 percent more on such transports this quarter.
The Pentagon said yesterday that it expected commercial air carriers to move 83,000 troops overseas, compared with 40,000 in January 2004. In addition, the Pentagon expects to move 71,600 troops in February, and 75,300 in March.
General Motors and Fiat will conclude settlement talks over their complex and fractured alliance on Feb. 1, the two companies said Monday. What happens on Feb. 2 remains to be seen.
The companies are locked in a standoff over Fiat's struggling automotive business. Under the terms of a broad partnership agreement struck in 2000, Fiat negotiated the right, which went into effect on Monday, to sell its auto business to G.M., with the right lasting through the decade.
The Supreme Court ruled on Monday that the full amount of a court award or legal settlement is taxable to the successful plaintiff, even if a sizable portion goes directly to a lawyer under a contingent fee agreement.
The lower federal courts have been split on the question. Acting on government appeals in two cases, the justices voted 8 to 0, with the ailing Chief Justice William H. Rehnquist not participating, to overturn decisions by the federal appeals courts in San Francisco and Cincinnati. Both courts had rejected the Internal Revenue Service's position that all economic gain is taxable to the person who has earned it, unless specifically exempted by Congress.
Anthony Elgindy, a well-known figure in the Internet world of penny stocks, was convicted yesterday on charges that he used confidential information from an F.B.I. agent about criminal investigations to profit illegally in the market.
The former agent who supplied the information, Jeffrey A. Royer, was also found guilty of securities fraud conspiracy charges related to Mr. Elgindy's stock-selling scheme. The federal grand jury in Brooklyn had deliberated for four days after a 10-week trial.
With an estimated net worth of $11 billion, John W. Kluge can afford to take the time before his investments rebound. But at age 90, time itself is a luxury.
Yet Mr. Kluge, who made his fortune selling television stations and wireless licenses in the 1980's, is still engaged in the investment business, say people who know him. Recently, for example, he has been taking stakes in medical technology companies.
Sun Microsystems said yesterday that its Solaris 10 operating system would soon be available on an open-source basis, a move the company hopes will help counter the perception that its technology is too proprietary and more costly than the competition's.
The decision means the software will be free and that programmers outside of Sun will be able to customize and improve it.
The Ford Motor Company said on Tuesday that it expected operating earnings to fall as much as 14 percent this year as record profits at its lending division are weighed down by rising interest rates. Ford also expects a weak first quarter that will be far short of Wall Street's expectations.
But executives are forecasting sharply higher profits for the core business of manufacturing and selling cars and trucks. And they said they still expected pretax profit of $7 billion in 2006, the central goal of a turnaround plan put in place after steep losses and a management shakeup in 2001.
The United Nations on Tuesday urged all the major industrial countries, especially Japan and the nations of Europe, to help the United States reduce its deficits by spurring their own economies to grow faster.
In a report, ''World Economic Situation and Prospects 2005,'' the United Nations said that the budget and trade deficits of the United States were putting the global economy off balance.
Partners at two prominent Silicon Valley venture capital firms deceived four of the five founders of a start-up company, withholding critical information and thereby cheating them out of tens of millions of dollars, according to a lawsuit.
The suit, filed in Superior Court here last week, was brought on behalf of three of the five founders of Epinions, a consumer product review Web site founded in 1999 that quickly became one of the dot-com era's more celebrated start-ups. The suit named J. William Gurley of Benchmark Capital and John R. Johnston of August Capital, both original investors in Epinions and directors of the company, and an Epinions co-founder, Nirav N. Tolia.
A New York State trial judge has ruled that a catalog sales company in Watertown, N.Y., near the Army base at Fort Drum, is actually a lender in disguise -- one that has been making illegal short-term loans to military and civilian customers at annual interest rates of more than 700 percent.
The ruling, by Justice Bernard J. Malone Jr. of State Supreme Court in Albany, came in response to a lawsuit filed in September by the office of the New York State attorney general, Eliot Spitzer. It prohibits the company, N.Y. Catalog Sales, from making any new loans and nullifies any outstanding loans, freeing the borrowers from any obligation to repay the principal or the interest.
For the past decade, the liquor industry has stood by quietly as sales of both light beer and diet soda have gone through the roof. Now one liquor company wants a piece of the lucrative market for low-calorie beverages.
In April, Bacardi Global Brands plans to introduce a flavored rum called Island Breeze that is promoted as having half the calories of regular rum or vodka. Unlike other flavored liquors, Island Breeze has no added sugar and is sweetened with sucralose, the popular artificial sweetener that is popping up in everything from peanut butter to orange juice.
A New York State judge said yesterday that the New York Stock Exchange must turn over an internal report describing how Richard A. Grasso, its former chairman, was awarded a large pay package.
The document was authorized by Mr. Grasso's successor, John S. Reed, who passed it on to New York and federal regulators early last year.
Economic growth in China accelerated to 9.5 percent in the fourth quarter, computed from the year-earlier period, while inflation slowed, the National Bureau of Statistics said Tuesday. Chinese officials promised to maintain controls on speculators, but took no new measures to temper economic growth.
But just nine months after the Chinese economy seemed on the verge of an upward spiral of higher wages and prices, Beijing appears to have kept growth at a brisk pace while bringing inflation under control. Still, private-sector and academic economists are deeply divided over whether inflation can remain low, as Chinese leaders have eased some of the controls they imposed last spring.
EVEN as the British unit of Volkswagen prepared yesterday to confront the creators of a fake Volkswagen commercial circulating online, executives there said they were worried that the incident would not be the last. Rather, they said, it may set the table for more hoaxes and brand confusion.
''The difficulty is, of course, that the general public may not know who is behind what they see on the Internet,'' said Paul Buckett, the head of press and public relations at Volkswagen Group U.K. in London. ''And in the future it may not be easy to take legal action to defend ourselves. That's not just for Volkswagen, of course, but for any company or individual.''
It used to be that a $50 microloan to start an embroidery kiosk or other modest enterprise was a gateway out of poverty for women in poor countries. Now, some of them are telling aid groups that that is no longer enough. Rather, they want serious money -- in some cases, several thousand dollars -- to build small businesses, hire employees and establish themselves in a developing marketplace.
After almost three decades, the microloan movement has created a global network of tens of millions of female entrepreneurs and, just as important, a growing subclass of highly sophisticated businesswomen who are collectively helping to lift their nations out of poverty.
Amazon.com, the online retail giant, plans to introduce a local search service today that can display photos of neighborhood businesses.
With the service, Amazon joins Yahoo, Google and many other companies in offering the electronic equivalent of the yellow pages. But the Amazon service, developed by its search-focused subsidiary A9, adds a novel twist: 20 million photos of buildings in 10 major United States cities, with more on the way.
Employees of Commerce Bancorp, which is based in Cherry Hill, N.J., and is one of the nation's fastest-growing banks, were pressured by their managers to contribute to a company-run political action committee every year and were encouraged to pad their expense accounts to cover the contributions, according to an amended lawsuit filed on Monday by Commerce stockholders.
The complaint, filed in Federal District Court in New Jersey, cited the comments of an unidentified former broker who worked in Commerce's capital markets unit from 1996 to 2004.
The New York Stock Exchange, which has been unsucessful with previous efforts to expand beyond stocks, may decide to seek to trade other financial instruments, its chief executive said on Wednesday.
The executive, John A. Thain, interviewed at the World Economic Forum, seemed confident that the Big Board was in a position to withstand threats to its franchise in stocks and was ready to at least contemplate the possibility of expanding out of corporate equities. He also said there had been positive reaction to the idea that the exchange open earlier in the day.
China surpassed the United States as Japan's top trading partner for the first time last year, highlighting the growing economic ties between Japan and its rapidly expanding neighbor.
China, including Hong Kong, accounted for 20.1 percent of Japan's total foreign trade last year, compared with an 18.6 percent share for the United States, according to figures released Wednesday by Japan's Ministry of Finance. By value, Japan's trade with China and Hong Kong, including exports and imports, rose to a record high 22.20 trillion yen ($215 billion) in 2004, outstripping the 20.48 trillion yen in trade with its longtime top partner, the United States.
ECONOMISTS argue for free trade. They have two centuries of theory and experience to back them up. And they have recent empirical studies of how the liberalization of trade has increased productivity in less-developed countries like Chile and India. Lowering trade barriers, they maintain, not only cuts costs for consumers but aids economic growth and makes the general public better off.
Even so, free trade is a tough sell. ''The truth of the matter is that we have one heck of a time explaining these benefits to the larger public, a public gripped by free trade fatigue,'' the economist Daniel Trefler wrote in an article last fall in The American Economic Review.
Profits this earnings season are better than expected so far, but have not been able to pull stocks out of a new year slump.
Even though stocks have climbed the last two days, there are plenty of signs that the market may stay in the doldrums for a while.
There was no mention of the $6,000 shower curtain.
Gone, too, was the $2 million birthday party in Sardinia.
For Clara Furse, chief executive of the London Stock Exchange, a tough job seems to just keep getting tougher.
In the four years since she took the top spot, Ms. Furse, now 47, has shepherded the exchange through some of the biggest changes in its 200-year history. During her tenure, the exchange has become a publicly traded entity itself, transformed from an institution often referred to disparagingly as an old boys' club into one its investors praise for its attention to shareholder value.
The mobile phone giant Nokia reported better-than-expected fourth-quarter earnings Thursday and was rewarded with a leap in its stock price, signaling that some investors believe that the company has turned a corner.
The company, which makes about a third of all the cellphones used in the world, reported net profit of 1.02 billion euros, or $1.33 billion, for the quarter, a 12.7 percent drop from a year ago, but up from 660 million euros in the third quarter. For the full year, the company, which is based in Espoo, Finland, made 3.21 billion euros, down from 3.59 billion euros in 2003.
Riggs Bank in Washington pleaded guilty yesterday to repeatedly failing to report suspicious transactions in bank accounts held by the leaders of oil-rich Equatorial Guinea and by Gen. Augusto Pinochet, the former dictator of Chile.
Riggs agreed to pay a $16 million penalty as part of a deal that would avoid prosecution of the bank and its holding company, Riggs National Corporation, on charges related to money laundering that has linked the financial and political worlds. The bank also agreed to continue to cooperate with a Justice Department investigation, including inquiries into the activities of several former executives and managers.
A prescription drug that treats erectile dysfunction is returning to the Super Bowl for a second consecutive year, with a 60-second commercial to run during the third quarter of the Fox Broadcasting telecast on Feb. 6.
The drug is Cialis, which made its Super Bowl debut last year along with a competitor, Levitra. The Cialis spot, by Grey Worldwide in New York, part of the Grey Global Group, raised eyebrows with an announcer's line that cautioned about possible side effects like erections lasting longer than four hours.
Nortel Networks, which is still sorting out its financial statements after disclosing irregularities, said Thursday that Peter Currie would become its chief financial officer next month. It will be the second time he has held the post.
Mr. Currie will succeed William R. Kerr, who took the position last spring after the dismissal of several executives over accounting problems.
The merger talks between SBC Communications and AT&T present Verizon Communications, the largest regional Bell company, and other rivals with a potentially powerful new force in the highly competitive corporate telecommunications market.
Verizon, which has sought to gain corporate customers on its own, may now want to abandon that strategy, some industry analysts said.
Media companies hoping to expand their television station holdings and to own both TV stations and newspapers in the same markets suffered a setback yesterday when the Bush administration decided to abandon its challenge to a ruling that blocked the relaxation of ownership rules.
The Justice Department will not ask the Supreme Court to consider a decision last year by a federal appeals court in Philadelphia that sharply criticized the move toward deregulation and ordered the Federal Communications Commission to reconsider its action. The decision is a final slap to Michael K. Powell, the departing chairman of the F.C.C., who had advocated the changes.
Molson shareholders overwhelmingly approved a $3.4 billion merger with the Adolph Coors Company on Friday, securing a deal that appeared to be in jeopardy earlier this month.
The deal was approved by 80.2 percent of Molson's Class A shareholders; 84.3 percent of its Class B holders voted in favor at a hotel in downtown Montreal. The support of the Class A holders, most of them not members of the Molson family, had been in doubt.
Procter & Gamble has long been the 800-pound gorilla in household products. So will it be more formidable with the added muscle of Gillette?
The anxiety level is certainly up in the suites of competitors. Procter & Gamble is already outspending its rivals in both marketing and product research, and Gillette has been more aggressive on those fronts as well. Together, they could be a marketing and innovation juggernaut.
A big countdown clock sits just inside the front door of an office building for Delta Air Lines near Hartsfield-Jackson International Airport.
The hours and minutes are ticking down to what Delta considers the biggest single overhaul of an airline's timetables in the history of aviation.
Mitsubishi Motors said Friday that it had secured 540 billion yen ($5.2 billion) in emergency financing from several sister companies in the latest of a string of multibillion-dollar bailouts for the struggling company.
The package comes less than eight months after the company received a $4.6 billion bailout that at the time was billed as its last chance for a turnaround. The company warned Friday that it expected a loss of $4.58 billion for the year ending in March, almost twice its previous estimate.
Mechanics at United Airlines have rejected wage and benefit cuts worth $96 million to the airline, which is operating under bankruptcy protection, their union said yesterday.
The union, the Aircraft Mechanics Fraternal Association, said a tentative agreement had been rejected overwhelmingly but did not give the margin. The union said mechanics also voted to strike if their contract was set aside by a bankruptcy judge.
Kaiser Permanente, one of the nation's largest managed care organizations, has ordered its pharmacies to stop dispensing Bextra, an arthritis and pain drug made by Pfizer that some tests have indicated may increase the risk of heart attacks and strokes.
Bextra is in the same class of drugs as another Pfizer painkiller, Celebrex, which has also been found to pose cardiac risks at high doses, and as Vioxx, the drug that Merck pulled from the market last fall after its own tests disclosed cardiac risks.
The American economy slowed to an annual growth rate of 3.1 percent in the final three months of 2004, the Commerce Department reported yesterday. That was the weakest quarterly pace in nearly two years, held down by a surge in imports, which substituted for production at home.
Consumers provided most of the lift, increasing their outlays for goods and services by more than enough to offset weaknesses in other areas. They spent most heavily on food and medical care, with home furnishings, home maintenance and motor vehicles not far behind.
William O. Bailey, an insurance executive who helped attract investors to many public projects by persuading the insurance industry to guarantee municipal bonds, died yesterday at New York-Presbyterian Hospital in Manhattan. He was 78 and lived in Manhattan and Moultonborough, N.H.
The cause was pneumonia, his wife, Carole, said.
SEVERAL weeks after being laid off last spring by Best Buy, the consumer electronics retailer, Lynette M. Steuck, a software project manager, showed up for a résumé-polishing ''outplacement session'' of the sort commonly offered to employees recently shoved out the door.
As Ms. Steuck, 51, a divorced mother, surveyed the sparely furnished conference room, she said she was struck by something. ''It was shocking,'' she recalled recently. ''There were probably 25 to 30 people in the session. And there were only three or four people under the age of 40.''
IN ''20 Ads That Shook the World,'' a fascinating book by James B. Twitchell, I read a dramatic assertion by anthropologists: If fish could think or had consciousness, the last thing they would think about is water.
With that discovery came a flood of watery memories and some thoughts about the possible American human equivalent of the fish's water. What is vital to us that we hardly even think about? Here is a hint:
IN 1897, Britain celebrated Queen Victoria's diamond jubilee with grand ceremonies, lavish parties and parades that stretched for miles. It was all in tribute to a monarch who had reigned for 60 years, but it was also a celebration of Britain's unrivaled world power and success. Never before had an empire been as wealthy or as vast, spanning a quarter of the world's population and land mass. Yet within 50 years, the British Empire would vanish.
No living memory survives to compare the speeches, parade and celebrations surrounding President Bush's inauguration with those of Queen Victoria's day. But the president's triumphal tone in his Inaugural Address was just one of a growing number of factors that evoke shades of empires past.
THE Rolls Royce of business conferences glides to its conclusion here today, capping a week of stimulating, high-minded discourse that makes the gathering such a hot ticket each year among chief executives, politicians, academics, journalists, the nonprofit set and the occasional celebrity.
Look, there's Angelina Jolie! Angelina, how is the world faring on the health and human rights fronts? Oh, my gosh! It's Bono! Bono, what needs to be done about African poverty? Hey, Richard Gere and Sharon Stone, how can we tackle the AIDS crisis?
When a federal judge ruled recently that Stan Lee, a co-creator of many Marvel Comics characters, was entitled to 10 percent of the profits from Marvel Enterprises film and television productions, he renewed a long-simmering debate in comic book history: How much credit does Mr. Lee deserve for creating characters like Spider-Man and the Fantastic Four and how much was due to his collaborators?
''It's amazing that he walks away with all the credit and all the money for some of the creation of these characters,'' said Robert Katz, a nephew of Jack Kirby, the illustrator who worked with Mr. Lee on the Fantastic Four, the Hulk, the X-Men and others. ''The artists who did the lion's share of the creation have walked away with absolutely nothing.'' Mr. Kirby died in 1994.
Here's a Hollywood riddle: If a car leaves Los Angeles at 9 a.m. traveling toward Reno at 30 miles per hour and another car leaves from Reno for Los Angeles at 40 m.p.h., when will the two meet?
Answer: We're not obligated to divulge that information.
AFTER being beaten up on all fronts, the airlines are starting to take it out on their computers.
In a move that is expected to save the carriers millions of dollars annually, some airlines have begun to persuade travel agents to shift to Web-based services from the mainframe systems they have used for 30 years. Earlier this month, United Airlines, which is a unit of the UAL Corporation, met with its top travel agents in Chicago to introduce them to three Internet-based reservation systems from ITA Software, G2 SwitchWorks and Farelogix that rely on Web connections and desktop computer technology to search and book seats. These systems cost airlines about $1 for every ticket booked, compared with more than $10 for current booking systems.
The Eastman Kodak Company is in talks to acquire Creo Inc., a Canadian printing technology company, for about $1 billion, executives close to the negotiations said over the weekend.
Exact terms of the proposed deal could not be learned. The executives cautioned that it was still possible the talks could fall apart.
The headquarters of Rumbo, a new chain of Spanish-language newspapers, are in an old office building here, a short stroll away from the Alamo, where Mexican troops in 1836 sought to quell the secessionist ambitions of English-speaking colonists in Texas.
The secessionists, of course, ultimately succeeded in their goal, ensuring more than a century and a half of Anglo dominance in Texas. But now Rumbo is building momentum against that dominance, one reader at a time.
The Environmental Protection Agency has developed a prototype diesel engine that meets tough new emissions standards to be phased in over the next few years in the United States. On Friday, the Ford Motor Company said the technology was promising enough that it had reached agreement with the agency to try to develop it for use in its cars and trucks.
At a news conference at an E.P.A. research installation here, Gerhard Schmidt, Ford's vice president for research and advanced engineering, said, ''We don't want to give the impression today that everything's solved and next year you will see several hundred thousand light-duty diesel vehicles on the road, but this is already a great start and has great promise.''
In another blow to Havas, Volkswagen of America in Auburn Hills, Mich., has named MediaCom in New York, part of the Grey Global Group, to handle the media planning and buying duties on its account, which had been handled for nearly a decade by a Havas unit, the Boston office of MPG USA. Spending was estimated at $500 million.
The decision, which came after a four-month review, consolidates most of Volkswagen's worldwide media buying with MediaCom, whose parent, Grey, is being acquired by the WPP Group. The move does not affect the creative part of VW's United States account, which remains at another Havas agency, Arnold Worldwide in Boston.
For years, Rebecca Koladycz traveled all over Latin America for the International Planned Parenthood Federation, visiting the organization's affiliates -- and mangling the Spanish language.
In her first week on the job, she had an especially grueling trip to Peru. As an icebreaking exercise in a group meeting, people were paired off with colleagues they had never met and were asked to interview them. Then they had to introduce their partners to the other participants and reveal a few facts about them.
A $50 VOUCHER IF YOU BEAT THEIR FARES -- American Airlines, the flagship carrier for AMR, is offering customers who book flights on its Web site a new guarantee of the lowest fare for flights on American, American Eagle and AmericanConnection. Starting today, customers who find a fare on another Web site that is $5 or more lower for the identical itinerary will be refunded the difference between that fare and the one on American's site, www.AA.com, with a $50 travel voucher thrown in.
TRAVELERS' TOP FEARS -- Americans dread getting sick or injured on the road more than any other travel threat, according to a survey commissioned by the Chubb Group of Insurance Companies. Nearly three-quarters (73.5 percent) of 1,500 travelers questioned by Impulse Research of Los Angeles cited medical emergencies as their top concern, followed by the risk of being robbed (30.7 percent) and the fear of a terrorist attack (23.4 percent).
Intensifying competition in the market for sports video games, Take-Two Interactive Software said yesterday that it had licensed the rights from Major League Baseball and its players' association to market games using major-league teams, players, uniforms and stadiums.
Under the agreement, which takes effect in the spring of 2006, Take-Two will be the only independent game developer allowed to make games using the official baseball brand.
BREAD, long under attack, is finally striking back.
The goal of a campaign that begins today in two East Coast markets and online (grainpower.org) is to counteract the onslaughts against bread from diet books and regimens that denigrate carbohydrates. The campaign is sponsored by a new organization, the Grain Foods Foundation, with 90 members that include marketers from the baking and milling industries like Cargill, ConAgra, Flowers Industries, General Mills, Interstate Bakeries and Sara Lee, along with trade associations and suppliers.
I fly more than 300,000 miles a year for business, and I've been to some of the most far-flung places on earth. When I first created the shoe I had no technological equipment on which to run tests, so I had to test them on my feet by walking and hiking and basically researching their endurance in all kinds of weather conditions.
The strangest place I've been is probably Mongolia. It was wintertime, and I spent the night sleeping inside the tents of the Mongolian tribes, and drank mare's milk and ate cheese.
Pulitzer Inc., the publisher of The St. Louis Post-Dispatch, The Arizona Daily Star and 12 other daily newspapers in the Midwest and West, has agreed to be acquired by Lee Enterprises, a newspaper chain based in Davenport, Iowa, for nearly $1.5 billion.
The deal joins two like-minded companies. Lee's 44 daily newspapers stretch from Glens Falls, N.Y.,(where it publishes The Post-Star) to Oceanside, Calif., (The North County Times), but are largely clustered in the Midwest. The company publishes The Wisconsin State Journal and The Capital Times in Madison, Wis., and The Sioux City Journal in Sioux City, Iowa.
Two years after saying it planned to enter the battle of Internet search engines, Microsoft is introducing its homegrown search technology to the users of its MSN service and Internet Explorer browser.
Microsoft has offered Web search services for years, but until today it used underlying technology provided by Yahoo.
MetLife said yesterday that it would buy Citigroup's life insurance business in a deal valued at $11.5 billion, a move that strengthens its position as one of the largest companies in an industry that is continuing to consolidate.
In its largest acquisition, MetLife will pay $8.5 billion to $10.5 billion in cash for Citigroup's life and annuity division and nearly all of its international insurance operations. The rest of the purchase will be in MetLife stock.
A year after a sweeping federal antispam law went into effect, there is more junk e-mail on the Internet than ever, and Levon Gillespie, according to Microsoft, is one reason.
Lawyers for the company seemed well on the way to shutting down Mr. Gillespie last September after he agreed to meet them at a Starbucks in Los Angeles near the University of Southern California. There they served him a court summons and a lawsuit accusing him, his Web site and 50 unnamed customers of violating state and federal law -- including the year-old federal Can Spam Act -- by flooding Microsoft's internal and customer e-mail networks with illegal spam, among other charges.
As AT&T's board members were about to give their final approval to sell the company to SBC Communications, the lights went out.
For a few minutes, the directors, meeting late Sunday night at AT&T's offices in Midtown Manhattan, sat in the dark before they could sign off on the $16 billion deal that would unite the two telecommunications giants.
Demand for office space has been so strong in Midtown Manhattan that the vacancy rate in the area has dropped to 10 percent, the level most real estate executives consider the dividing point between a surplus of available space and a shortage.
Specialists say a scarcity of big blocks of space in Midtown will tend to force financial services firms and related companies to consider Midtown South and downtown. A result, they say, is that effective rents are likely to rise as landlords shrink concessions like periods of free rent and contributions toward interior construction.
A former financial officer for HealthSouth said in court Tuesday that he made up numbers to increase company results starting in 1996, and that he did so under the direct orders of Richard M. Scrushy, the company's former chief executive.
Mr. Scrushy is charged with directing a $2.7 billion accounting fraud at HealthSouth from 1996 to 2002. The former financial officer, William T. Owens, who is testifying for the government as part of a plea agreement, said Tuesday that his role was to determine how to produce fraudulent statements, which were ultimately reviewed and approved by Mr. Scrushy.
President Hugo Chávez of Venezuela signaled on Tuesday that his government was interested in selling its American oil-refining operations, in the latest illustration of an energy strategy that has raised doubt whether Venezuela would continue as a reliable source of oil for the United States.
Mr. Chávez, speaking on Tuesday during a visit to Argentina, said the government-controlled oil company, Petróleos de Venezuela, was looking to sell as many as eight refineries in the United States. They are owned entirely or in part by Citgo, which is based in Houston and is controlled by Petróleos de Venezuela, and they have long been used to process crude oil from Venezuela.
In the aftermath of a news conference to discuss the creation of the nation's largest telecommunications company, the deal's architect stood nearly alone while a gaggle of journalists and industry analysts peppered his deputies with questions.
That is Edward E. Whitacre Jr., the chief executive of SBC Communications and the unassuming would-be fortuneteller of the telecommunications world.
After a lull since a wave of mega-mergers in the late 1990's -- when Exxon bought Mobil, BP acquired Amoco and Chevron merged with Texaco -- the time for large-scale takeovers in the oil industry may again be on the horizon.
While high oil prices would make acquisitions more expensive than in the 1990's, when prices were low, oil companies are reporting huge profits. Yet they are also finding it hard to discover new sources of oil. So, the thinking goes, why not spend more money now to buy oil and gas reserves?
SPORT utility vehicles are beastly, or at least beastlike.
That is the message of a new public service campaign from the governments of the 50 states and the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico and the Virgin Islands. The $27 million campaign, paid for with settlement money from a lawsuit against the Ford Motor Company, starts this week and is aimed at informing young men in particular about the rollover risks of sport utility vehicles.
The tiny town of Galena, Alaska, which pays three times as much for electricity as the national average, is considering a novel way to cut that cost by two-thirds: a tiny nuclear reactor.
On Wednesday the town manager and a deputy mayor sat down here with the Nuclear Regulatory Commission to learn how a plant is licensed. They talked about their current logistics to obtain power -- shipping diesel fuel in by barge during the brief window when the Yukon River is not frozen over -- and their efforts to find an alternative.
As the European Union kicked off its latest campaign to rejuvenate the Continent's creaking economy, Germany supplied fresh evidence of how deep-seated the problems are.
The number of unemployed people in Germany rose to five million last month, the most in the post-World War II period, as the government transferred some longtime welfare recipients to the jobless rolls.
Following is the text of a statement released by the Federal Reserve yesterday after the Fed's monetary policy panel, the Federal Open Market Committee, decided to raise its benchmark interest rates a quarter point:
The Federal Open Market Committee decided today to raise its target for the federal funds rate by 25 basis points to 2 1/2 percent.
Gordon A. Paris, the new president and chief executive of Hollinger International, could be paid about $4 million a year and could earn as much as $9 million if the company changes hands, according to a company filing yesterday with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
The company is suing its former chief executive, Conrad M. Black, accusing him of taking excessive compensation. Lord Black received $7.9 million in 2002, the last year for which his compensation has been disclosed. A report last summer said that from 1997 to 2003, Lord Black and others transferred more than $400 million to themselves -- about 95 percent of the company's profit. Lord Black denies any wrongdoing.
Driven by a strong performance at its film and cable businesses, the News Corporation said yesterday that its second-quarter net income rose 80 percent, to $386 million, or 13 cents a share, from $215 million, or 7 cents a share, in the quarter a year ago.
The company said sales in the quarter, which ended Dec. 31, rose 18 percent, to $6.56 billion.
Doug Herzog, the president of Comedy Central, has been chosen to take over Spike TV, the fledgling ''network for men,'' whose previous president resigned last weekend. Mr. Herzog will take over Spike while maintaining his position at Comedy Central; Viacom owns both channels.
Herb Scannell, the president of the MTV Networks Group, which oversees Spike TV, said he hoped Mr. Herzog would create a signature show for a channel that now features ample portions of testosterone-heavy fare like pro wrestling and sports biographies, as well as ''Star Trek'' reruns.
Stocks got only a small lift yesterday after Federal Reserve officials said that rate increases in the future would continue to come at a measured pace.
The statement also announced a quarter of a percentage point increase in the Fed's benchmark short-term interest rate, to 2.5 percent. That removed any threat, for now, that interest rates would rise more quickly than expected in the months ahead because of inflationary pressures.
The Securities and Exchange Commission, stepping up its efforts to stop penny-stock fraud in its tracks, has begun suspending suspicious trading that agency officials think could be a prelude to a market manipulation.
The S.E.C. halted trading in Courtside Products, a manufacturer of gym bags, on Friday, and in Commanche Properties, an entertainment company, on Monday. The securities for both companies, which are listed on the over-the-counter pink sheets, are restricted under S.E.C. rules and are ineligible for general trading for one year. As a result, even though only 2,200 shares of Commanche stock had changed hands, the trading raised a red flag.
Even before kickoff, the Super Bowl has its first advertising casualty.
In a highly unusual last-minute reversal, the Ford Motor Company withdrew a commercial from the game late yesterday in the face of complaints.
CBS News announced yesterday that Bob Schieffer, the host of ''Face the Nation'' for more than a decade, will become the interim anchor of ''The CBS Evening News'' after Dan Rather quits the broadcast on March 9.
While ensuring that the ''Evening News'' will be led by a veteran journalist recognizable to many of Mr. Rather's viewers, the decision by the network to appoint an interim anchor lays bare not only the internal disarray surrounding Mr. Rather's departure but also the news division's failure in recent years to devise an orderly succession plan for his broadcast.
Is the Internet bubble half empty or half full?
With Google's stock on a roll, rising more than 7 percent yesterday to close at $205.96 and prompting some analysts to predict it will hit $290 or more in the coming months, it can seem like the late 1990's again on Wall Street. Shares in Google have been trading for less than six months, but they have risen 142 percent and the company has a market value of $56.2 billion, equal to that of Starbucks, Nike and Southwest Airlines -- combined.
The Federal Reserve raised short-term interest rates on Wednesday, its sixth increase since June, and signaled that it intends to keep raising rates in the months to come.
The central bank nudged the federal funds rate, the rate charged on overnight loans between banks, by a quarter of a point, to 2.5 percent.
HEDGE fund managers have become Wall Street's new wonder kids. But even among this elite class, one group stands out with its own special cachet: alumni of Goldman Sachs.
A disproportionate number of the managers of the largest and most successful hedge funds are former Goldman employees, including several who are protégés of Robert E. Rubin, the former Goldman co-chairman and United States Treasury secretary and now chairman of the executive committee at Citigroup.
Toyota, the world's second-largest carmaker, posted a 3.5 percent rise in quarterly profits on Thursday as spending on its ambitious global expansion plans curtailed growth in its earnings.
Toyota, second only to General Motors in the number of cars sold last year, posted a net profit of 296.5 billion yen, or $2.85 billion, for the three months ended Dec. 31. Sales rose 6 percent, to 4.64 trillion yen, or $44.7 billion, for the quarter.
Carrefour, Europe's largest retailer, replaced its chairman and chief executive, Daniel Bernard, on Thursday, appointing Luc Vandevelde, a former chairman of Marks & Spencer, and José Luis Durán, Carrefour's chief financial officer, to the helm of the company.
Mr. Vandevelde became nonexecutive chairman, and Mr. Durán was named chief executive. Mr. Vandevelde has been on the Carrefour board representing the Halley family, its biggest shareholder, since last year.
The Royal Dutch/Shell Group reduced its proven oil and gas reserves by an additional 10 percent on Thursday, rattling investors yet again and increasing speculation that the company will ultimately have to buy a better-performing rival to compete with peers like Exxon Mobil and BP.
The cut in reserves, Shell's fifth in just more than a year, came as the company reported record profits, buoyed by high oil prices.
The Boeing Company, facing legal problems at the Pentagon and the Justice Department, has hired two politically experienced outside lawyers in several highly charged cases, a company official said Thursday.
Boeing is the one of the nation's biggest military contractors. It is under fire for unethical handling of Pentagon contracts and trade secrets obtained from the Lockheed Martin Corporation, its biggest corporate rival in the weapons business.
The Food and Drug Administration said yesterday that it might permit an implantable electrical device for the treatment of epilepsy made by Cyberonics to also be marketed as a therapy for chronic depression that is resistant to other treatments.
The agency set a number of conditions on the tentative approval, and Cyberonics said it hoped to meet them before the end of May.
In an unusual move, Nortel Networks, the telecommunications equipment maker, has filed a lawsuit against a former chief executive and two other officers who were fired last year, seeking to recover bonuses totaling 12.9 million Canadian dollars, or $10.4 million.
Last month, an internal investigation at Nortel found that the former chief executive, Frank A. Dunn; a chief financial officer, Douglas C. Beatty; and a former corporate controller, Michael J. Gollogly; manipulated financial statements to win bonus payments. All three men were dismissed last April.
Merchants and retail analysts are increasingly concerned that America's retailers will have a tough time during the rest of the year, despite better-than-expected January results that were released yesterday.
The results, which compared sales at retail stores open at least a year, also accentuated the differences between the haves and the have-nots: those store chains performing admirably and those that seem to be floundering.
A former longtime HealthSouth executive provided more details Thursday about a $2.7 billion accounting fraud and described a pivotal meeting in the middle of a lake as he continued his testimony against the company's founder, Richard M. Scrushy.
HealthSouth's financial position was continuing to slide during the summer of 2000 when one day in July, the executive, William T. Owens, ran into Mr. Scrushy on Lake Martin in southeast Alabama, Mr. Owens testified in Federal District Court.
TALK about zigging when others are zagging: On the Monday after the biggest day of the year for television advertising (otherwise known as Super Bowl Sunday), a leading publisher will begin what it is calling its largest effort ever to promote the power of print as a medium.
The effort comes from the Condé Nast Media Group in New York, a new unit of the Advance Magazine Group division of Advance Publications that oversees corporate sales and integrated marketing for more than two dozen titles. Among them are Architectural Digest, Bride's, GQ, Glamour, Golf Digest, Gourmet, House & Garden, Jane, The New Yorker, Parade, Self, Vanity Fair, Vogue and W.
THERE once was a time when corporate insiders took it for granted that one good reason to be a company director was to get inside information that could be profitable, for themselves or their friends.
But that was before governments set out to protect investors and made insider trading illegal. Now the world is a different place, full of companies that recognize their obligations to all investors, not just the privileged few.
A sportswriter for The Worcester Telegram & Gazette in Massachusetts was fired yesterday after the newspaper determined that he had plagiarized a column in Sports Illustrated magazine and had lifted material from other publications at least six times.
The editor of the newspaper, Harry Whitin, said late yesterday that the writer, Ken Powers, covered the New England Patriots and was in Jacksonville, Fla., to cover the Super Bowl, when the newspaper received two tips about similarities between a Jan. 24 column by Peter King on the Sports Illustrated Web site and a Jan. 30 column by Mr. Powers.
China denied on Thursday that it had helped finance the purchase of a Yukos oil subsidiary by the Russian state oil company Rosneft, while Russian officials also tried to erase any link between China and the acquisition.
Analysts said Thursday that the moves might be an attempt to avoid being sued by Yukos, which won an injunction in a bankruptcy court in Texas in December barring any company from financing a bid for the subsidiary, Yuganskneftegas.
Matsushita Electric Industrial, the world's largest consumer electronics maker, reported Friday that profit jumped 47 percent in the latest quarter on healthy demand for its flat-panel TV's and DVD recorders.
Matsushita, the maker of Panasonic products, reported a better-than-expected net profit of 35.57 billion yen ($342 million), for the three months ended Dec. 31. Revenue rose 13 percent, to 2.3 trillion yen ($22 billion), as strong sales of digital cameras, plasma televisions and DVD recorders more than offset dwindling sales of VCR's and stereos.
Despite a solid earnings report and a rising stock market, shares of Time Warner fell 12 cents, to close at $18.04 yesterday. Several analysts and investors attributed the decline to concerns that the Time Warner bid for Adelphia Communications would commit it further to an industry where growth could be slowing.
The company said yesterday that its revenue for the fourth quarter rose 1.8 percent, to $11.1 billion, and that net income jumped 77 percent, to $1.1 billion, or 24 cents a share, compared with $639 million, or 14 cents a share, for the similar quarter in 2003.
Honda Motor urged the federal government on Friday to impose tougher fuel- economy regulations, an unheard- of request from an automaker.
The request was meant as a gesture to environmental groups after the Thursday decision by Honda and Nissan to join an industry lawsuit against California, which is seeking to regulate the emissions from cars and trucks of gases that are said to worsen global warming. Most other automakers have already sued the state to block what would be the first such effort in the nation.
US Airways has defied its critics and rivals by refusing to die.
''Frankly, we know that we've disappointed a lot of our competitors, and that's just fine with us,'' Christopher L. Chiames, a senior vice president, said in an interview this week.
TWO years ago, Miriam Huggard, then 93 and in declining health, decided that it was time to plan for her future housing needs. She considered an assisted-living center, but instead joined a ''virtual retirement community'' that provides services to the aging in their Boston homes.
''I had a friend in assisted living and it seemed like a pretty good system,'' Ms. Huggard said. ''But I couldn't face moving out of a place that I've lived in almost 50 years.''
SOMETIMES, book publishers' timing is exactly right.
Everywhere you look, once-infallible marketers are flailing: AT&T never mastered how to provide cellphone service, Coca-Cola has been struggling on the supermarket shelf and Wal-Mart has a stock price that has been essentially flat for the last five years. Given all that, the time is right for advice aimed at helping marketers regain their footing. Many books arriving in stores promise just that.
HOWARD ROOT, chief executive of Vascular Solutions, got a jolt in September as he was preparing his company for a routine examination by Ernst & Young, the Big Four firm that had been its auditor since it was founded in 1997. Without warning, and less than three months before Vascular's annual report was due at the Securities and Exchange Commission, Ernst & Young quit.
But why? Mr. Root said that there were no financial improprieties or deteriorating prospects at Vascular Solutions, a medical devices maker based in Minneapolis. In fact, he said, the company had just reported record sales and shrinking losses. The company had no disagreements with Ernst & Young, he said.
IS there a crisis in Social Security? The White House says yes. ''Social Security was a great moral success of the 20th century, and we must honor its great purposes in this new century,'' President Bush said last week in his State of the Union address. ''The system, however, on its current path, is headed toward bankruptcy.''
Others, especially left-leaning research organizations, say no. Dire warnings ''seriously misrepresent Social Security's financing and the challenges the program faces,'' said a report released last month by the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities.
IF you do not know why she is a publishing legend, Jane Friedman will be happy to tell you. ''I am actually credited with inventing the author tour,'' Ms. Friedman, the president and chief executive of HarperCollins Publishers, told a group of aspiring editors and publicists recently at New York University's Center for Publishing.
That boast is not without merit. In 1970, as a young publicist at Alfred A. Knopf, Ms. Friedman was assigned to schedule Julia Child on morning television shows to promote the second volume of her seminal work, ''Mastering the Art of French Cooking.'' Ms. Friedman added a series of kitchen demonstrations by Mrs. Child at department stores across the country, and -- voilà! -- the author tour was born.
BRENT STEVENS did not sleep on that February weekend in 1990. A newly minted Wharton School M.B.A., Mr. Stevens had recently joined Drexel Burnham Lambert, the swashbuckling investment bank that dominated the market for financing risky companies. That Sunday, after working on a deal nonstop for 48 hours, he received an ominous telephone call from a managing director, telling him to go home. He was dumbfounded. Deals were over when they were over, he said, and no one at Drexel slept until they were.
The next morning, Mr. Stevens arrived at 5:30 at Drexel's office in Beverly Hills to find his boss, Robert Beyer, sitting in his chair. ''You're going to hear some pretty difficult things today,'' he recalled Mr. Beyer telling him. ''A lot of them will be true. Don't worry, you'll be fine.''
The United States attorney's office in Manhattan is investigating individual traders on the floor of the New York Stock Exchange on suspicion of cheating customers through illegal trading practices already under scrutiny by the Securities and Exchange Commission and the exchange itself, according to someone who has been briefed on the investigation.
The criminal inquiry is an escalation of the investigation, begun by the Big Board in the summer of 2002, into the activities of stock exchange specialists -- traders who manage the buying and selling of particular stocks and have an obligation to stabilize markets in the stocks they manage -- from 1999 to 2003. There are two trading practices at issue in the investigations: executing proprietary orders before customer orders, and getting involved in a trade that should be carried out automatically with no intervention.
The economy is growing. Tax revenues are climbing. But can these factors rescue President Bush from a federal deficit that seems stuck above $400 billion?
The answer, unfortunately, is almost certainly no, analysts say.
John L. Tatta, a pioneer in the cable television industry, who worked with Charles Dolan to build Cablevision into one of the nation's leading providers, died on Thursday on Long Island. He was 84.
The cause was complications from cancer, Cablevision said.
Companies often go to great lengths to help employees who fall ill on the road. But what happens when a business traveler dies?
That was the predicament Moog Inc. faced recently. An employee who was attending a business conference in Phoenix, hiking in the mountains with a colleague during their off time, ''got out of breath, had a heart attack and died,'' said Kathy Hall-Zientek, the travel manager for Moog, an aerospace manufacturer based in East Aurora, N.Y.
The EMI Group, the British music company, said Monday that sales for the fiscal year ending next month would be as much as 8 percent below those of the prior year. The report sent EMI's stock tumbling 16 percent.
Sales would be lower in part because the release dates for albums by the bands Coldplay and Gorillaz were pushed back, the company said. Both albums were scheduled to come out before the end of March, the end of EMI's fiscal year, but will now be postponed several months. EMI gave no reason for the delay.
Warning: Cigarette smoking may be hazardous to your job.
That is what employees at Weyco, an insurance benefits administrator in this small central Michigan town, found out.
Rik Kirkland, managing editor of Fortune magazine, announced yesterday that he would step down on April 1, saying he was tired of the management part of his job and wanted to go back to writing.
Eric Pooley, managing editor for Time in Europe, was expected to be appointed to the post today. Mr. Pooley flew from London to New York yesterday to meet with executives at the Time Inc. unit of Time Warner, which owns the magazine.
On this sprawling Army base about 40 miles southwest of Savannah, most of the lawns are brown in winter and the housing tends to be drab and decades old. But Jessica Gustavson and her two children are about to get their own patch of newly sodded grass along with a new three-bedroom home that would not seem out of place in a comfortable suburb.
Part of a fourplex, the two-story house includes a master bathroom with a double sink, a powder room, huge closets, an attic, a covered patio and an up-to-date U-shaped kitchen. Large windows let in plenty of light, a feature that Mrs. Gustavson, 32, said was particularly welcome now that her husband, a sergeant, has left for Iraq for the second time.
UBS, Europe's largest bank, posted a 12 percent jump in quarterly net profit Tuesday, helped by rebounding global financial markets after the American presidential elections, and solid returns in its private wealth business.
UBS reported a net profit of 2.02 billion Swiss francs ($1.65 billion) in the fourth quarter. For the full year, net income rose 29 percent, to 8.09 billion francs, a record. The results showed that UBS, traditionally strong in managing private wealth, has gathered momentum in expanding its investment banking business to compete with the Wall Street giants that dominate securities trading and advisory work, analysts said.
The Boeing Company's chief executive, Harry C. Stonecipher, said yesterday that he expected that Boeing and the federal government could move as early as the end of this month toward reaching a settlement of several ethics investigations into the company's dealings with the Pentagon.
Speaking at a New York investors' conference, Mr. Stonecipher said that a settlement would probably occur after the Feb. 18 sentencing of a former Boeing chief financial officer, Michael M. Sears, a central figure in a conflict-of-interest scandal involving Boeing and billions of dollars in Pentagon contracts.
For John A. Lemoine, retirement has been hard work. Forced to take an early pension package at AT&T three years ago, Mr. Lemoine, 54, a former building manager who once made more than $70,000 a year handling the operations of several AT&T sites, soon found that retirement was something he just could not afford.
To supplement the greatly reduced pension he received upon his retirement, he first took an $11-an-hour job as a maintenance worker at the Sam's Club up the road from his home here. He retrained as an X-ray technician, and began earning $17.50 an hour as a part-time radiology technician for several clinics. Still unable to make ends meet, he also took a full-time job as a security guard for an hourly wage of $10.50.
Michael Smyth, who works for a pharmaceutical company, was peering not long ago at three large diamonds perched on the tops of metal rods, balanced above pure white paper in a shop in the Manhattan diamond district. Like countless young men in the generations before his, Mr. Smyth was looking for an engagement ring.
But Mr. Smyth is different from earlier suitors, who often trembled at the approach of a salesman. Before he started out, he had carefully researched diamond sizes, cuts and quality on the Internet. He knew the wholesale prices, and he was ready to bargain.
For the last year, the chief executive of the Neiman Marcus Group, Burton M. Tansky, known as Mr. Luxury, has been crowing about the consistent double-digit sales growth in his stores and the steady ascent of the company's stock.
Now, Neiman Marcus, with 37 stores and a reputation for fabulous shoes and expensive designer clothing, may be looking to cash in on that performance. Richard A. Smith, 81, the chairman, has let it be known that he is thinking of selling his stock in the company, say several investment bankers. Through his company General Cinema, Mr. Smith took a big stake in Neiman's parent in 1984, buying convertible shares for $300 million, and the Smith family now controls the company.
The Federal Trade Commission rebuffed a challenge to product placement yesterday by an advocacy organization that criticizes the practice as deceptive.
The organization, Commercial Alert, in Portland, Ore., called on the commission in September 2003 to require that placements be prominently identified with a superimposed message like ''advertisement'' as they occur during programming.
Three days after Riggs National filed a lawsuit against the PNC Financial Services Group for failing to complete a merger, the banks announced yesterday that they had resolved their differences and planned to merge as soon as possible.
Under a revised deal, PNC will pay $20 a share, or about $652 million, to acquire Riggs, which has been mired in a money-laundering investigation. PNC, based in Pittsburgh, originally offered Riggs $24.25 a share in a $779 million takeover announced in July. According to the suit, which Riggs has since agreed to withdraw, the talks foundered because PNC wanted to revise the original terms and pay $19.32 a share.
After decades of being a diversified conglomerate, the Sara Lee Corporation has concluded that hot dogs and underwear do not belong under the same roof.
In a broad reorganization, Sara Lee named a new chief executive and announced plans to divest four businesses that together account for 40 percent of the company's revenue. C. Steven McMillan, who also announced that he was stepping down as chief executive, said Sara Lee would spin off its $4.5 billion apparel business, its $1.1 billion European packaged meat division, American coffee brands like Hills Bros. and Chock full o' Nuts, and a direct-sales unit for cosmetics and household products.
Microsoft and Pfizer took coordinated legal action yesterday against two groups sending junk e-mail messages that offer illegal generic versions of Viagra, Pfizer's best-selling drug for erectile dysfunction.
The two companies filed separate lawsuits against the people behind the CanadianPharmacy site at www.cndpharmacy.com, and the operators of Pharmacy Direct at www.myepharmacydirect.com.
Bernard J. Ebbers, the former chief executive of WorldCom, and his finance chief, Scott D. Sullivan, backed out of preliminary merger talks with Verizon Communications in 2001 to avoid having to open the company's books to outsiders, according to testimony yesterday from Mr. Sullivan.
That summer, Mr. Sullivan said, he and Mr. Ebbers were in merger talks with their counterparts at Verizon Communications. But the two sides had not yet started a due diligence process that would have allowed Verizon to inspect WorldCom's confidential accounts. According to Mr. Sullivan, Verizon's chief executive, Ivan G. Seidenberg, had told Mr. Ebbers that he wanted to announce a deal before Labor Day.
Charles F. Dolan, the 78-year-old chairman and controlling shareholder of Cablevision Systems, does not give up easily.
Yesterday he said that he was forming a company to buy the remaining assets of Voom, the troubled satellite company that the Cablevision board decided to sell to EchoStar Communications last month over Mr. Dolan's objections.
At Hewlett-Packard, another woman executive is now in the spotlight.
Like Carleton S. Fiorina, she is known as a smart strategic thinker, a brilliant communicator, and an effective saleswoman.
At times, it is necessary to ''neutralize'' the opposition, or at least Merck & Company executives seemed to think so.
In 1999, the company's new pain drug, Vioxx, was beaten to pharmacy shelves by a competing drug, Celebrex. Merck apparently hoped that nationally known rheumatologists like Dr. Roy Altman could help it catch up.
The Manchester United soccer club confirmed Friday that the American billionaire Malcolm Glazer has made a new bid for the club that involves less debt, but the club added that it was still unlikely to back his bid.
The board of Manchester United said Friday that Mr. Glazer's bid of £800 million ($1.5 billion), or 300 pence a share, set a fair price for the club. The board also said it would give Mr. Glazer limited access to its books. Though he has approached the club before, Mr. Glazer has never named a price.
Eason Jordan, a senior executive at CNN who was responsible for coordinating the cable network's Iraq coverage, resigned abruptly last night, citing a journalistic tempest he touched off during a panel discussion at the World Economic Forum in Davos, Switzerland, late last month in which he appeared to suggest that United States troops had deliberately aimed at journalists, killing some.
Though no transcript of Mr. Jordan's remarks at Davos on Jan. 27 has been released, the panel's moderator, David Gergen, editor at large of U.S. News & World Report, said in an interview last night that Mr. Jordan had initially spoken of soldiers, ''on both sides,'' who he believed had been ''targeting'' some of the more than four dozen journalists killed in Iraq.
I GREW up on a cattle ranch in Oklahoma, where people are rugged and self-sufficient. It was a sparsely populated area and the living conditions could be harsh. I always wanted to do things where I had a great deal of independence.
Every year there was a rattlesnake demonstration for the tourists. The organizers would pay the local residents 50 cents a pound to round up the snakes. When I was a freshman in college, a friend and I skipped classes and hunted diamondback rattlesnakes for two days. We caught 90 of them, which was quite a bit of beer money.
COMPARE our e-mail system today with the British General Post Office in 1839, and ours wins. Compare it with the British postal system in 1840, however, and ours loses.
In that year, the British introduced the Penny Black, the first postage stamp. It simplified postage -- yes, to a penny -- and shifted the cost from the recipient to the sender, who had to prepay. We look back with wonder that it could have ever been otherwise. Recipient pays? Why should the person who had not initiated the transaction be forced to pay for a message with unseen contents? What a perverse system.
FOR years, Armstrong Williams, co-founder of Graham Williams Group, a public relations agency in Washington, has catered to clients in politics, business and entertainment. His partner at the agency is Stedman Graham, the boyfriend of Oprah Winfrey. Mr. Williams is also a popular and ubiquitous political commentator, advocating individual accountability and ethical rectitude as a leading African-American conservative.
One of the Web sites of this P.R.-specialist-cum-commentator captures the flavor of his professional portfolio: ''Williams has become a multimedia wonder, taking stands for what's right on radio and television, in print and in cyberspace. Focusing on issues such as the work ethic, personal responsibility and especially the restoration of morality in today's society, Williams brings an independent view with a refreshing twist to the central issues of our day.''
''The Passion of the Christ'' made $611.4 million worldwide at the box office, but its director, Mel Gibson, still wants to spread the word.
Mr. Gibson has edited several scenes for a new, less graphic version of his film about the life and death of Jesus Christ. Called ''The Passion Recut,'' it will be released March 11 in 750 theaters across the country and, in a twist for a widely distributed movie, it will carry no rating from the Motion Picture Association of America.
The scene at Il Cantile restaurant in Little Italy in Manhattan last Thursday night was anything but old country. Electronic Arts used the restaurant to preview its new video game, The Godfather, which puts the player in the overcoat and homburg of a young operative in the Corleone organization, made famous in Mario Puzo's 1969 book and the 1972 movie it spawned.
Electronic Arts' version of the story was also a final collaboration for many of the original Godfather performers. James Caan and Robert Duvall reprised several of their famous conversations from the movie and added new dialogue written specifically for the game.
Even though Air Canada recently emerged from bankruptcy court protection, relations between the airline and its unions remain testy. Last month, for example, a disciplinary dispute led to a wildcat strike and briefly shut down the airline's main hub in Toronto.
Now the antipathy between the two sides has entered a new forum: literary criticism.
Scott Jaschik and Doug Lederman had covered higher education for years but on May 30, 2003, they found out that -- in journalism -- there's no such thing as tenure.
On that day, both Mr. Jaschik and Mr. Lederman, the editor and managing editor of The Chronicle of Higher Education, announced they were leaving the paper, where they had both worked for nearly 20 years. They did not explain why.
Preserved on Hewlett-Packard's campus as a kind of museum exhibit are the spartan offices of William Hewlett and David Packard.
Mr. Hewlett and Mr. Packard, the founders of the fabled Silicon Valley company, did not hole themselves up like so many top executives nowadays but invited people to share ideas. A wedge of darkened linoleum can be found behind each door, evidence that the doors were open in a corporate culture created by the two engineers -- men who favored pocket protectors and short sleeves and summed up their executive style as ''management by wandering around.''
Bill Gates said on Tuesday that Microsoft planned to introduce this summer a new version of its Internet Explorer Web browser with stronger features to protect against viruses and other vexing security flaws that have plagued Windows users.
In a speech at the RSA computer security conference, Mr. Gates, Microsoft's chairman, said the company was making progress in its fight against spam, adding that ''phishing'' software scams were the fastest-growing security problem the company faced. He said the company was currently spending about $2 billion a year on computer security development and research.
Federal regulators have opened a safety investigation into 2004 models of the best-selling vehicle from Toyota Motor's Lexus division, the RX330 sport utility vehicle, after receiving complaints about failures in its power brakes.
Bill Ussery, a Lexus spokesman, said the company was aware of the brake problem and issued a technical service bulletin to its dealers in September. But the company has not notified customers or recalled the vehicle because it says it does not think the problem is widespread and no injuries have been linked to it.
A senior executive at Marsh & McLennan Companies and two employees of the American International Group pleaded guilty yesterday to criminal charges of rigging bids for corporate insurance policies.
Six other executives, including one from Marsh and two from A.I.G., had earlier pleaded guilty amid an investigation of the insurance industry by the New York attorney general. All nine are cooperating with investigators, who say they already have leads implicating several dozen executives at Marsh, the world's largest insurance broker, and several major insurance companies.
When Qwest's takeover offer was rejected by MCI last weekend, the setback was much more than a missed merger opportunity.
By losing to Verizon despite being the high bidder, Qwest Communications International sent an unintended advertisement to investors about how financially shaky the company still is. And by trying so desperately to buy MCI, Qwest, the smallest of the four regional Bell companies, signaled that it would need a partner if it hoped to be competitive in the consolidating telecommunications industry.
Two anti-McDonald's activists convicted of libel in Britain for criticizing the company's animal rights practices, its environmental policies and the nutritional value of its food did not get a fair trial and should be compensated by the British government, a European court said Tuesday.
The two, Helen Steel, a former gardener, and David Morris, a former mailman, were ordered in 1997 to pay £60,000 to McDonald's after it sued them for distributing pamphlets titled ''What's Wrong With McDonald's'' in front of its London outlets. The ruling came after a trial that lasted more than 300 days and become known as McLibel. The trial still holds the record as Britain's longest, and helped fuel anti-McDonald's sentiment throughout Europe.
Late in the summer of 1973, two young scientists in the nascent field of computer networks hunkered down in a conference room of the Cabana Hyatt Hotel in Palo Alto, Calif., a clean but bland stopping place for salesmen and the parents of students at nearby Stanford University. Their goal was to thrash out a way to make different, isolated computer networks talk to each other.
They wrote, they sketched, they argued, all the while passing a yellow legal pad back and forth to capture ideas as they crystallized.
From the day that Jürgen F. Strube joined BASF in 1969, his company has been cleaning up its act. At that time, it was making plans for a wastewater treatment plant at its chemical production complex here, which stretches for nearly five miles along the Rhine.
The plant helped purify the river, which sparkles these days as it flows past a tidy forest of pipes and smokestacks. Downstream from the factory is a vineyard that produces a crisp Riesling wine -- which BASF, the world's largest chemical maker, buys in bulk to stock its million-bottle wine cellars.
The American military is working on a new generation of soldiers, far different from the army it has.
''They don't get hungry,'' said Gordon Johnson of the Joint Forces Command at the Pentagon. ''They're not afraid. They don't forget their orders. They don't care if the guy next to them has just been shot. Will they do a better job than humans? Yes.''
An experimental treatment tripled the survival rate of men with advanced prostate cancer in a clinical trial, doctors said yesterday, a result they said represents perhaps the first significant success for therapies known as cancer vaccines.
The treatment, developed by Dendreon, a Seattle biotechnology company, is called a vaccine not because it prevents disease but because it tries to harness the body's own immune system to fight cancer after the disease has developed. Many such cancer vaccines have failed in clinical trials and none have reached the market in the United States.
A NEW YORKER cartoon depicts a well-heeled, elderly gentleman taking his grandson for a walk in the woods. ''It's good to know about trees,'' he tells the boy, before adding, ''Just remember, nobody ever made big money knowing about trees.''
If the man's advice was not inspired directly by the economist's rational-actor model, it could have been. This model assumes that people are selfish in the narrow sense. It may be nice to know about trees, it acknowledges, but it goes on to caution that the world out there is bitterly competitive, and that those who do not pursue their own interests ruthlessly are likely to be swept aside by others who do.
In his first day under cross-examination, Scott D. Sullivan, the government's star witness in its case against the former WorldCom chief executive, Bernard J. Ebbers, said yesterday that he had lied dozens of times to auditors, directors and shareholders.
Mr. Sullivan's testimony in Federal District Court in Manhattan came in response to a blizzard of questions from a defense lawyer, Reid H. Weingarten, who has been trying to show that Mr. Sullivan -- and not Mr. Ebbers -- masterminded the $11 billion fraud that led to the collapse of WorldCom in 2002.
Lawyers for thousands of people who contend that they were harmed by the diet drug combination fen-phen said yesterday that they would reject a comprehensive settlement offer from Wyeth. But the company said there was a ''substantial show of interest'' in the deal.
A spokesman, Douglas Petkus, said Wyeth did not yet know how many of the 63,000 plaintiffs who had received the settlement offer would sign on, but he reiterated the company's view that its $21.1 billion litigation reserve would fully finance the remaining cases.
The members of Guiding Light Church welcome Richard M. Scrushy, the ousted founder of the HealthSouth Corporation, with open arms each week to services, where he and his wife are among the handful of whites in a mostly African-American congregation.
''I've seen him in services so often with members of his family,'' Pat Lowe, the wife of the Guiding Light pastor, said of Mr. Scrushy, who is married for a third time and has nine children. ''I believe he is a man of integrity.''
In a rare move, the European Parliament demanded Thursday that a controversial proposal for a law on software patents be scrapped and that the debate begin anew.
The proposed law is intended to harmonize the patent rules of the 25 countries in the European Union. Current laws do not permit software patents, but some have been registered in recent years.
The Credit Suisse Group, two months into a sweeping two-year reorganization, reported a 22 percent increase in profit in the fourth quarter of 2004, beating analysts' expectations.
Net income at the bank, which is Switzerland's second largest, rose to 959 million Swiss francs ($809 million), from 784 million francs in the 2003 quarter.
For the last six years, Working Mother magazine listed Novartis, the pharmaceutical manufacturer, as among the best 100 companies for women, citing its generous maternity leave and a program to encourage telecommuting from home.
But a dozen women sales representatives for Novartis beg to differ. In a lawsuit filed yesterday in Federal District Court in Manhattan, the women contend that they were discriminated against in pay and promotions, particularly after becoming pregnant. The company's products include the Gerber baby brands.
PBS has warned its member stations that it cannot protect them against federal indecency sanctions if they broadcast an unedited, profanity-laced version of a documentary about a United States Army regiment in Baghdad as it faced insurgent attacks leading up to the Iraqi elections, producers of the documentary said yesterday.
The documentary, ''A Company of Soldiers,'' was produced by Front-line, a production of WGBH, the public television station in Boston, and is scheduled to be broadcast on Tuesday night. The Public Broadcasting Service will offer its stations both an edited and an unexpurgated version, as it commonly does with programs that have content that might be objectionable in some parts of the country.
Stepping into the rapidly expanding business of providing information for wireless hand-held devices, Random House announced yesterday that it had acquired a minority stake in Vocel, a San Diego start-up company that offers educational content to subscribers over cellphones for a monthly fee.
Random House said it had also agreed to license two product lines -- Living Language, a series of foreign-language self-study programs, and Prima Games, which publishes video-game strategy guides -- to Vocel for use with its cellphone technology.
DURING the early days of Internet advertising, skeptics often argued that Web ads would never sell prosaic packaged goods effectively.
As more Americans become comfortable with the Web, though, major marketers are increasingly asking agencies to produce elaborate, interactive online campaigns -- even for grocery store goods that hardly anyone researches or buys online.
Saudi Aramco, the world's largest producer of crude oil, is seeking to strengthen relations with energy companies in India and China as part of a strategy to increase Saudi oil exports there. Together, the two countries are expected to account for much of the increase in global oil demand over the next decade.
At the same time, Abdallah S. Jumah, the president and chief executive at Aramco, the energy company controlled by the Saudi kingdom, said on Wednesday that the company was hoping to maintain its position as a leading supplier of petroleum to the United States, the largest consumer of Saudi oil.
Eighteen employees who in recent days abruptly left the flagship New York office of Saatchi & Saatchi, where they had worked for years on the big General Mills account, are expected to announce, perhaps as soon as next week, an agreement to join the Interpublic Group of Companies.
Advertising executives who were briefed on the former employees' plans said yesterday that the group was in the final stages of negotiations to join Interpublic in one of two capacities. The executives spoke on the condition of anonymity because, they said, the plans were not final.
As corporate America celebrates the legislation on class-action lawsuits signed by the president yesterday as a victory in the battle to limit civil lawsuits, some evidence has surfaced that jury verdicts -- another oft-cited villain in debates over problems with the civil justice system -- may have leveled off and perhaps even declined.
In the 100 biggest verdicts of 2004, juries assessed a total of $11.1 billion in damages, down from $20.1 billion in 2003 and $40 billion (a result of a $28 billion tobacco verdict) in 2002, according to The National Law Journal, which drew on data assembled by VerdictSearch; both are units of American Lawyer Media. The 100 cases include class-action lawsuits in state and federal courts that went to a jury.
The Mitsubishi Tokyo Financial Group, the No.2 Japanese bank, offered $29 billion in stock on Friday for UFJ Holdings, a lender in Japan, moving the companies a step closer toward creating the world's largest financial group.
The offer from Mitsubishi Tokyo matched an unsolicited rival bid last year from the Sumitomo Mitsui Financial Group, setting off the first takeover battle for a major Japanese bank. But now that the preferred buyer has put a concrete bid on the table, analysts say Mitsubishi Tokyo will probably carry the day. Though the two banks have been in talks since last July, Mitsubishi had never put a number on its offer until now.
The crowded auditorium began to take on the feel of a rock concert. At the urging of the speaker, people suddenly stood up and, to the pulsing strains of a recording by the group Barenaked Ladies, thrust their fists in the air and shouted, ''Yes! Yes! Yes!''
After the speaker finished, a middle-aged woman, who had been lucky enough to catch one of the souvenir furry carrots tossed into the crowd, dashed toward the podium like a wild teenager, seeking another one. Then a larger throng of people scrambled toward the dais in search of autographs. Elbows flew.
The long business career of William G. Pietersen has taken him from his native South Africa to the United States. Over the years, he has served as an executive for corporate giants like Unilever and Seagram. Now he is in a prime-time South African television series based on his management advice.
Mr. Pietersen, 67, is the host of a 12-part series called ''Reinventing Strategy'' on Summit Television, a business and financial news channel that broadcasts to about 850,000 households in South Africa, Lesotho, Swaziland and seven other African nations. The television shows are based on his book of the same name (John Wiley & Sons, 2002).
IT'S something of a mystery why the huge and presumably powerful public pension funds in this country have been so loath to investigate whether they have been hurt by their consultants' conflicted loyalties. After all, the biases in these organizations are of enough concern to the Securities and Exchange Commission that it has conducted an industrywide investigation of pension consultants and may recommend enforcement actions against some of them.
Well, last week, the ice finally began to crack on this important issue. The board of the Public School Teachers' Pension and Retirement Fund of Chicago is reviewing a proposal to conduct a comprehensive conflict-of-interest audit of its investment consultant, Mercer Inc., a unit of Marsh & McLennan. The fund has $10.3 billion in assets and has been a Mercer client since 1990.
EACH day, 50,000 shiny, fire-engine-red Gala apples work their way through a sprawling factory in Swedesboro, N.J. Inside, 26 machines wash them, core them, peel them, seed them, slice them and chill them. At the end of the line, they are dunked in a solution of calcium ascorbate and then deposited into little green bags featuring a jogging Ronald McDonald.
From there, the bags make their way in refrigerated trucks to refrigerated containers in cavernous distribution centers, and then to thousands of McDonald's restaurants up and down the Eastern Seaboard. No more than 14 days after leaving the plant, the fruit will take the place of French fries in some child's Happy Meal.
Talk shows have long been the recipients of on-air complaints. It is somewhat rarer for the host to do the complaining.
Earlier this month, MSNBC moved Don Imus, host of the ''Imus in the Morning'' radio program, which MSNBC also televises, from a small studio in Astoria, Queens, to a state-of-the-art suite at company headquarters in Secaucus, N.J.. Mr. Imus has had trouble adjusting.
Even as many marketers are trying to entrance consumers with longer commercials on television, advertisers on the in-store network at Wal-Mart are honing the sale of products in 10-second spots.
''We've almost had to invent the model as we go along,'' said Mark C. Mitchell, executive vice president of Premier Retail Networks, which operates and programs the Wal-Mart TV Network, adding that consumers had already become adept at absorbing information from the Internet, television, cellphones and magazines all at once.
A few years ago, Warner Brothers sold the video game rights to its film series ''The Matrix,'' a heady science-fiction trilogy starring Keanu Reeves, for $10 million, according to industry reports.
So when it came time for Warner Brothers to sell the game rights to ''Constantine,'' the new fantasy movie also starring Keanu Reeves, the studio might have expected a similar windfall. Instead, the rights went to a small developer, Bits Studios, for less than a million dollars.
The attorneys general in New York, Connecticut and Illinois are in negotiations with Aon, the world's second-largest insurance broker, to settle investigations into whether the company received improper payments from insurance companies that increased costs for its customers, some of the officials said yesterday.
''We're in talks,'' said Darren Dopp, a spokesman for Eliot Spitzer, the New York attorney general.
Mike Godwin, the legal director for Public Knowledge, a digital-rights advocacy group in Washington, is a fan of Showtime's new drama series ''Huff.'' So three weeks ago, when he missed the season finale, he decided to download it to his personal computer.
It took about seven hours to download all 500 megabytes of the hour-long episode over his high-speed Internet connection, using the latest file-sharing software designed to handle large digital files.
IN Monterrey, Mexico, where Roy and Bertrand Sosa grew up playing Atari and street soccer, cash paid for everything -- the rent, the water bill, the white Volkswagen Beetle. Even at fancy restaurants, the brothers never glimpsed a Visa card, and they never used credit until college in Austin, Tex.
So in the late 1990's, when upbeat dot-coms promised to build online über-malls, the Sosa brothers wondered about how people without plastic could shop on the Internet.
CONGRATULATIONS! You've worked hard, built a nest egg and you're retiring to Hilton Head to golf. Isn't that the American dream? Not for everyone. Here are three accounts of people, with all the comforts, setting out on what might be called vanity ventures.
It's Not Cute, It's an Inn
CHITCHAT COMMUNICATIONS, a provider of prepaid phone cards, looks like a typical industry giant, at first glance. In addition to professional graphics on its Web site, the company uses a Web-based telephone answering system suitable for scores of employees. Except there are not scores of employees at Chitchat.
Instead, the company's owner and sole employee, Wael Manasra, has mastered the art of taking a small business and making it look big.
OVER the last several years, John Votta's accounting office in Haddon Township, N.J., has gotten progressively less cluttered, with computer programs replacing piles of files and papers. Yet that doesn't mean his workload has shrunk, especially when dealing with his small-business clients.
''They call them tax simplification acts,'' Mr. Votta said of the bills that Congress passes periodically. ''But often it is just a reduction of tax rates. Don't confuse that with simplicity. The rules, especially for small businesses, just seem to become more and more complicated.''
WHEN Bob Duncan was studying engineering management at the University of Texas in the mid-1980's, Japanese competition had American businesses terrified. ''There was great concern that Japan would eliminate the U.S. manufacturing base just totally,'' he recalled.
To the confident young Mr. Duncan, however, Japanese manufacturing was not a threat but an inspiration. After graduation, Mr. Duncan worked for Andersen Consulting (now Accenture), teaching clients lean manufacturing techniques originally developed in Japan.
WHEN Gloria Otten and Katherine Christensen met at a workshop on how to turn one's cooking skills into a business, both were looking for new work gigs. Ms. Otten had shut down her espresso-catering business when demand dropped after she moved from Seattle to San Diego. And Ms. Christensen was a retired lawyer who wanted to turn her hobby into a second-act career.
They each worked as personal chefs for a while after taking the course, but found serving just one client limited. ''Both of us wanted a bigger business and didn't want to be caterers, so we put our heads together,'' Ms. Otten said.
THE Consumer Electronics Show in Las Vegas last month was like a Super Bowl for technology giants, a chance to bask in the media glow and show off. But the gathering was heady for start-ups, too. Here are some of the minor players.
KidSmart
NIELSEN MEDIA RESEARCH is taking significant additional steps to address the complaints of critics who have been increasingly vociferous in challenging how the company gathers television ratings data.
The steps, described as an action plan by Nielsen in a detailed eight-page letter, include a proposal from the company to set aside $2.5 million to pay for a year's worth of methodological research. The research would be conducted in cooperation with Nielsen's clients rather than unilaterally, the company pledged, and the results after the first year would determine the budget for subsequent spending.
Qwest Communications International spent the weekend weighing proposals to make an another $8 billion bid for MCI, executives close to the company said yesterday.
Qwest, which lost an auction for MCI to Verizon Communications last week despite making a higher offer, is hoping to break up that deal and get a seat at the negotiating table.
Piped water, like the runoff from the glaciers above this city, runs tantalizingly close to Remedios Cuyuña's home. But with no way to pay the $450 hookup fee charged by the French-run waterworks, she washes her clothes and bathes her three children in frigid well water beside a fetid creek.
So in January, when legions of angry residents rose up against the company, she eagerly joined in. The fragile government of President Carlos Mesa, hoping to avert the same kind of uprising that toppled his predecessor in 2003, then took a step that proved popular but shook foreign investors to their core. It canceled the contract of Aguas del Illimani, a subsidiary of the $53 billion French giant Suez, effectively tossing it out of the country and leaving the state responsible.
Novartis, the Swiss pharmaceutical giant, said on Monday that it planned to buy Hexal of Germany and its affiliate Eon Labs of New York for $8.4 billion in cash, creating the world's biggest maker of generic drugs.
Hexal, which had sales of 1.3 billion euros ($1.7 billion) last year, would bring Novartis more than 120 new products, among them painkillers and cholesterol drugs, while Eon would bring a low-cost copy of a popular antidepressant and an extensive pipeline of new generic medicines.
Is the 9-7X the first sport utility vehicle from Saab, or is it a Chevy TrailBlazer dressed up to look Swedish?
The 9-7X, which is to come out this spring, will be roughly the same size and shape as a TrailBlazer, and for that matter, a GMC Envoy, Buick Rainier and Isuzu Ascender. It will roll off the same production line as the TrailBlazer, Envoy, Rainier and Ascender at a General Motors plant in Moraine, Ohio. All five S.U.V.'s share a pickup truck frame, the same engines, a similar sheet-metal design and many of the same parts, but the Saab has a base price of $38,270, about $11,000 higher than the TrailBlazer.
May Department Stores, which owns Lord & Taylor and Marshall Field's, has suspended its search for a chief executive as merger talks with Federated Department Stores advanced over the weekend, executives close to the company said yesterday.
May's decision to halt the search process is the most significant indication yet that it is seriously considering a takeover bid from Federated, the nation's largest department store company, with chains like Macy's and Bloomingdale's. May instructed the executive recruitment firm it had hired, Spencer Stuart, to ''put the search on the back burner'' while it negotiates with Federated, one executive said. May had hired Spencer Stuart a month ago when its chairman and chief executive, Gene S. Kahn, was ousted. His resignation led Federated to approach May.
The stock price of the giant data broker ChoicePoint fell by more than 9 percent yesterday, as privacy-rights advocates, industry experts and officials in at least two states -- Georgia and Illinois -- called for closer regulation of companies that compile large databases of consumer information.
ChoicePoint sells personal data to potential employers, landlords and others conducting background checks on individuals. It revealed last week that it had been duped last year into delivering personal financial and background data on thousands of American consumers to thieves posing as legitimate business customers. The company said it had not disclosed the breach earlier because law enforcement officials had been looking into the matter.
TWO former top executives of the flagship New York office of Ogilvy & Mather Worldwide were found guilty yesterday of overbilling a federal antidrug agency for advertising work.
The executives, Thomas Early, 49, and Shona Seifert, 44, were each convicted on all 10 counts -- one count of conspiracy and nine of making false claims -- by a jury in United States District Court in Manhattan. The two, both former senior partners, are to be sentenced by Judge Richard M. Berman on May 16.
At Johnson & Johnson, the director of equal opportunity was worried. The company, she warned in a memo written in the late 1990's -- the exact date is unclear -- had ''areas of vulnerability'' to employment discrimination lawsuits.
As it turned out, she was right. And the memo, written by Marion HochbergSmith and intended to prod Johnson & Johnson, the giant drug company, into making improvements, could now end up serving as an unintended legal weapon against it.
David Bradford, an influential tax economist who devised an innovative way to change the income-tax system to encourage people to save and invest more, died on Tuesday in Philadelphia. He was 66 and lived in Princeton, N.J.
The cause was burns he suffered after a Christmas tree caught fire in his home on Feb. 8, his son, Theodore, said.
The dollar's plunge Tuesday and its small rebound yesterday underscored how vulnerable it is right now to a further decline.
The vulnerability can be traced to a fear that the United States will not be able to attract the funds from abroad needed to cover its current-account deficit, which is expected to set a record for 2004 of more than $600 billion.
FANNIE MAE, the nation's largest buyer of home mortgages, said on Wednesday that its primary regulator had discovered a host of new potential accounting violations at the company that had raised a fresh set of ''safety and soundness concerns.''
Fannie Mae also said that regulators had decided to give it a three-month extension, until the end of September, to carry out a plan to raise billions of dollars in capital and reduce its portfolio of mortgage securities.
A federal jury found yesterday that Wal-Mart Stores had discriminated against a disabled Long Island man who briefly held a job at the company's Centereach, N.Y., store, and ordered the company to pay him $7.5 million in damages.
The plaintiff, Patrick Brady, 21 years old, has cerebral palsy. He applied for a job in the Wal-Mart pharmacy department in the summer of 2002 and was hired. He said he quit not long after he was reassigned to other responsibilities, including collecting garbage and shopping carts from the parking lot.
Medco Health Solutions, the pharmacy benefits manager, agreed yesterday to buy Accredo Health, a fast-growing distributor of expensive specialty drugs for high-risk patients, for $2.2 billion in cash and stock.
With the purchase, Medco, which is based in Franklin Lakes, N.J., said it would have $4.2 billion in specialty drug revenue and opportunities to sell more to employers and health plans that pay the bills.
Essence Communications Partners announced yesterday that it was stopping publication, at least temporarily, of Suede, an ethnic fashion magazine aimed at young women, after four issues because of high production costs.
Essence owns the magazine jointly with Time Inc., which bought 49 percent of Essence in 2000 and announced in January that it had agreed to buy the remaining 51 percent. Time officials said yesterday that the deal was still on track.
With its founder poised to emerge from prison next month, Martha Stewart Living Omnimedia reported steep losses for last year yesterday but declared that it was focused on the future, ''with Martha's return to the company and our capacity to plan no longer clouded.''
The company said it lost $60 million for the year, nearly 10 times the $6.4 million loss it had in 2003. In the fourth quarter it lost $9.5 million, or 14 cents a share, compared with income of $2.3 million, or 5 cents a share, for the same quarter in 2003.
At the crowded Diacon Hospital here, some 100 diabetics throng daily to consult with Dr. Arvind Sosale, the hospital's director and lead diabetes specialist. But on a recent morning, the pace in his consulting room was unhurried, despite the rush outside.
It was the one morning a week the doctor reserves for the select few who participate in the clinical tests he often conducts for Western pharmaceutical companies. In part because of the attention he lavishes on the patients, in part for the free medical tests and supply of drugs involved, Dr. Sosale has a ready supply of subjects to the trials.
Bala S. Manian rarely looked back when he left India to attend graduate school in the United States. Since 1979, he has started one medical technology company after another in Silicon Valley.
But Dr. Manian is now rediscovering his native country. His newest medical venture, ReaMetrix, which makes test kits for pharmaceutical research, is still based in Silicon Valley. But 20 of its 28 employees are in India, where costs for everything from labor to rent are lower.
Men, are you tired of the time, trouble and expense of having a girlfriend? Irritated by the difficulty of finding a new one?
Eberhard Schöneburg, the chief executive of the software maker Artificial Life Inc. of Hong Kong, may have found the answer: a virtual girlfriend named Vivienne who goes wherever you go.
Online sites are generating new revenue by steering readers to advertisements when they click on certain words. But when those keywords are embedded in the text of a news article, those sites are generating debate as well.
Two months after Forbes.com ended an experiment with such keyword ads, citing unease among its reporters, The New York Post is considering adopting the practice for its site. In the process, the newspaper is raising questions about the ethics of keyword advertising online.
Jet Airways (India), the country's biggest airline, drew more than 13 times as many bids as it had stock available for its initial public offering, which ended on Thursday.
In the first such sale in India's booming aviation sector, the airline offered 17.26 million shares at 950 rupees ($21.79) to 1,125 rupees ($25.80) each, to raise about $445 million. By early evening, the Web sites of the Mumbai Stock Exchange and the National Stock Exchange said the offering was oversubscribed by a factor of 13. Final numbers were not yet available.
A federal judge here dismissed on Thursday night an effort by the Russian oil company Yukos to seek bankruptcy protection in the United States, thwarting its hope of putting some American legal hurdles in front of the international banks involved in the Russian government's breakup of the company.
The ruling may set an important precedent for financially troubled foreign companies seeking haven in bankruptcy courts in the United States, one of the few nations where executives of debtor companies are normally allowed to retain control after filing for bankruptcy protection.
Defense lawyers for Bernard J. Ebbers, the former chief executive of WorldCom, called a former WorldCom board member yesterday to try to refute testimony by the prosecution's star witness, Scott D. Sullivan, that Mr. Ebbers knew about the fraudulent accounting practices that brought down the company.
Bert C. Roberts Jr., an outside board member at WorldCom until 2002, testified yesterday that Mr. Sullivan, WorldCom's former chief financial officer, told him that Mr. Ebbers knew nothing about journal entries that turned out to be fraudulent.
The board of May Department Stores plans to meet Saturday, an indication that it expects to receive a bid from its rival, Federated Department Stores, an executive close to the negotiations said last night.
The meeting of May's board, which had been unscheduled, would come after a meeting today by Federated's board. Federated directors are expected to weigh whether to offer about $12 billion for May, other executives close to the talks said.
As the fallout continued to spread from the news of a security breach at ChoicePoint, a company that inadvertently sold sensitive consumer data to thieves last year, Senator Charles E. Schumer, Democrat of New York, took aim at another data search service, Westlaw. He promised to introduce broad new legislation aimed at curbing identity theft.
At a news conference in Washington yesterday, Mr. Schumer complained that any employee -- from high-level managers to interns -- of a company subscribing to Westlaw's databases could access sensitive records on millions of people, including Social Security numbers, previous addresses, dates of birth and other data that is valuable to identity thieves.
For holiday shoppers, there were bargains galore. By Thanksgiving weekend, Saks Fifth Avenue was offering 40 percent off; Macy's was selling furs for ''40 and 50 percent off -- plus an extra 15 percent.''
Now the stores and the clothing makers are arguing about who is going to pay for the profits lost because of all those markdowns.
Wal-Mart Canada was ordered by Quebec's labor relations board on Friday to stop intimidating workers at a store in the midst of an organizing drive.
The decision involves three cashiers at a store in the Quebec City suburb of St. Foy and is the second unfair labor practice ruling against Wal-Mart in Quebec since September. Earlier this month, Wal-Mart Canada, a unit of Wal-Mart Stores Inc., announced that it would close a store in Jonquiére, Quebec, where employees had unionized and were trying to negotiate the first collective agreement with the retail giant in North America.
Riggs National, the embattled Washington banking company, agreed to pay an unusual $8 million settlement to resolve a Spanish legal action related to its dealings with Chile's former dictator, Gen. Augusto Pinochet. In addition, Robert L. Allbritton, the bank's chief executive, and his father, Joe L. Allbritton, former chief executive and its controlling shareholder, will pay another $1 million.
The money will go to a foundation in Spain that will distribute it to victims of the Pinochet regime or their families, said Sam Buffone, a lawyer with Ropes & Gray in Washington who represents some of the victims.
The Sankyo Company said Friday that it would buy its smaller rival, Daiichi Pharmaceutical, in a $7.7 billion deal that would secure Sankyo's place as Japan's second-largest drug maker.
The takeover is the latest in a string of mergers and buyouts among Japanese drug makers amid falling prices, rising development costs and worries about becoming the target of a foreign takeover.
BMW's 3 Series is a big bet not just for the company, but for Germany's future as a manufacturing economy.
At a time when other European carmakers are moving production to lower-cost countries in Central Europe, BMW opted to build a vast new plant for the 3 Series in Leipzig, in eastern Germany.
The Federal Communications Commission, in an abrupt about-face, has decided to reconsider a staff decision that allowed a prominent Oklahoma politician convicted of perjury and obstruction of justice to sell a group of radio stations, officials said on Friday.
The decision to approve the sale was considered by some media experts to be a significant deregulation of the broadcast ownership rules, because the agency has long required the forfeiture of radio licenses to the commission by those who fail a character test. The character test, which requires truthfulness in dealing with the government, is an integral part of the media rules, because owners of radio licenses hold a public trust and are obliged to act in ''the public interest.''
In a dramatic move by the defense, Bernard J. Ebbers, the former chief executive of WorldCom accused of fraud, conspiracy and filing false financial reports, has indicated that he may testify in his own defense next week.
One of Mr. Ebbers's lawyers, Brian Heberlig, told Judge Barbara S. Jones of Federal District Court about the defense team's ''good faith'' intention in a hearing yesterday. Mr. Heberlig said ''there is a very high probability'' that Mr. Ebbers would take the stand on Monday, according to a court transcript.
When Glenn F. Tilton, the chief executive of United Airlines, finished outlining the steps the airline was taking to eventually emerge from bankruptcy protection at a crowded investment conference last week, a voice piped up from the back of the room.
Why shouldn't United just remain in bankruptcy? Mr. Tilton was asked.
Evidence of robust economic growth helped the stock market to recover from a midweek slump caused by rising oil prices. The Commerce Department on Friday revised its gauge of the pace of economic growth in the fourth quarter of 2004, bumping it up to an annual rate of 3.8 percent from its estimate of 3.1 percent in January. Analysts had expected a revision to just 3.7 percent.
Oil stocks led the market's rally, driven by Exxon Mobil, which rose 6.5 percent for the week. ConocoPhillips climbed 5.7 percent.
IT can be crowded at the top. That is what Mel Karmazin found after CBS, of which he was chief executive, merged with Viacom in 2000. He agreed to stay on as president of Viacom under the combined company's C.E.O., Sumner M. Redstone; four rocky years later, Mr. Karmazin stepped down and cashed in his options.
Last fall, Mr. Karmazin signed on as the chief executive of Sirius Satellite Radio, the second-largest (and only other) satellite radio broadcaster after XM. The move recalls his roots as the founder of Infinity Broadcasting, the radio group that popularized Howard Stern. Mr. Karmazin spoke recently about Mr. Stern, who will be joining Sirius in January, as well as Mr. Redstone and Sirius's business. Following are excerpts from the conversation.
TODD A. SMITH is one of the nation's leading medical malpractice lawyers, renowned and feared in the courtroom, having extracted a lengthy string of multimillion-dollar settlements and verdicts from doctors, hospitals and insurers over the years. Though wealthy even by the standards of his profession, Mr. Smith, 55, seems to have lost none of the intensity and passion that fuel his 12- to 14-hour workdays and make him a persuasive trial lawyer.
Seated in his law firm's conference room, with an Olympian view high above Lake Michigan, Mr. Smith recited the details of his first courtroom victory in the summer of 1977, when he was a $12,000-a-year assistant public defender in the Cook County criminal courts. The defendant, he recalled, was an American Indian who was accused of armed robbery in a case that was based mainly on his race. The man was identified as the robber, for example, in a lineup that included him and a collection of off-duty, white police officers. ''It was terribly unfair,'' Mr. Smith said.
Not many executives have heard of Cardinal Bankshares or its main business unit, the Bank of Floyd. But they will.
In the first case of a whistle-blower protected by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, an administrative law judge for the Labor Department has ordered Cardinal to rehire its former chief financial officer, David E. Welch, and to pay him nearly $65,000 in back pay and damages. The judge, Stephen L. Purcell, also instructed the bank to pay Mr. Welch's $108,000 legal bill.
Sidney Frank, the flamboyant liquor baron who sold his Grey Goose vodka to Bacardi last year for more than $2 billion, has an idea for a publishing business. Instead of starting a new magazine, he plans to buy several existing titles, then consolidate them into one magazine focused on creating ''best of'' lists across a range of categories like travel, food, sports and entertainment.
''My goal is to fill a niche in the media world that is missing -- a lifestyle publication that offers readers a road map to the best luxury products to buy, places to travel and restaurants to taste,'' Mr. Frank said.
Pauline Kael described Clint Eastwood's 1971 film, ''Dirty Harry,'' as ''cheerfully fascist'' and ''deeply immoral.'' One can only imagine what the late film critic would have said about ''Dirty Harry,'' the video game.
The actor will lend his voice and likeness to a new ''Dirty Harry'' game, which is being produced by Eastwood's Malpaso Productions and overseen by Warner Brothers Interactive Entertainment. ''There are a lot of fans of the Harry Callahan character,'' said Warner Brothers' president and chief operating officer, Alan Horn. ''And this is Clint's way of bringing it to a new audience and having some fun with it.''
Cover up the title and you would think you were looking at a lifestyle magazine for women: a brunette model is flopped on the grass with her guy snuggled close, whispering secrets in her ear.
But he's not whispering sweet nothings. He's talking money.
What do famous chefs have for breakfast when they travel? Oatmeal, mostly.
For lunch? Something light, perhaps grilled fish or an egg salad sandwich on whole-wheat toast. For a quick bite? A Whopper and fries will do nicely.
After nearly a year of searching for a designer to take over Givenchy, the fabled French fashion house, LVMH Moët Hennessy Louis Vuitton announced yesterday that Riccardo Tisci, a relatively unknown designer, would become Givenchy's creative director for women's wear.
The appointment of Mr. Tisci was surprising because he does not have the name recognition of other LVMH designers like John Galliano, the designer of Christian Dior, or Marc Jacobs, who designs Vuitton.
Financial regulators on Monday announced the creation of an international board to oversee the setting of auditing standards. But the board will not have the power to inspect whether auditing standards are being effectively administered, leaving that to national regulatory bodies that in some cases are only beginning to be formed.
The creation of the group, the Public Interest Oversight Board, came in the wake of accounting scandals in many countries, scandals that in some cases exposed what appeared to be poor auditing procedures or worse.
A battle within the family that controls the Cablevision Systems Corporation took another turn yesterday after the company said it had ceased negotiations with Charles F. Dolan, its chairman and controlling shareholder, who had been set to acquire the assets of Voom, its troubled high-definition television operation. Cablevision said it would close Voom within 30 days.
Minutes later, Voom put out its own statement saying that Mr. Dolan and his son Thomas had told Cablevision that they were prepared to finance the continued expansion of the Voom business and that they continued to be ''interested in completing the transaction.'' The statement quoted Thomas Dolan as saying a transaction would be in the best interests of Cablevision's shareholders.
While city and state officials sought to mitigate the coming loss of the corporate headquarters of May Department Stores, shoppers and residents speculated about the fate of a store that has been a fixture downtown.
Federated Department Stores, which owns the Bloomingdale's and Macy's chains, announced on Monday that it would pay about $11 billion for May, which is based here and employs about 6,000 people in the area, both in corporate offices and at chains like Famous-Barr and Lord & Taylor. While the headquarters will be merged with Federated's offices in Cincinnati and New York and some job cuts are expected, Federated did not offer any specifics yesterday. The company did say it would maintain St. Louis as the headquarters for one division.
Later this month, one of the nation's biggest shopping mall developers is opening a mall in Jacksonville, Fla., that breaks with the old rules of what a mall should look like.
It has just one department store, Dillard's; its other anchors will be Dick's Sporting Goods, the Cheesecake Factory and Barnes & Noble. The mall will include two apartment complexes and a hotel. A Target is planned at a site across the street.
The upscale development called Port Imperial stretches over a sliver of prime waterfront real estate here two and a half miles long, wedged between the Hudson River and the Palisades cliffs.
It is a mix of high-rises and town houses built on the sites of former factories and warehouses and it offers postcard views of Manhattan. The thousands of rental apartments would seem an unstoppable revenue-producing machine, and a thousand more units have already been approved.
The mall that shares the name of this prosperous Philadelphia suburb was the first enclosed shopping center east of the Mississippi, and these days it is showing its age. Its interior is a pastiche of styles from successive remodeling efforts, and its exterior has a fortresslike appearance that betrays its 1961 origins.
Annual sales at Cherry Hill are $450 a square foot, well above the industry average of $366, but executives of Pennsylvania Real Estate Investment Trust, or Preit, a Philadelphia company that bought the mall from the Rouse Company in 2003, say it could be more successful.
The Halliburton Company signaled on Tuesday that an investigation by the Justice Department into bribery charges related to its dealings in Nigeria had broadened to encompass whether its executives had rigged contracts with competing companies in an effort to profit illicitly from large foreign construction projects.
Halliburton, the energy services company, revealed the widened investigation in a filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission, which is also conducting an inquiry into payments made in connection with a natural gas complex in Nigeria. The inquiries have already led to the firing last year of Albert Jack Stanley, the former chairman of Halliburton's KBR subsidiary.
Verizon Communications would and should face serious regulatory hurdles in its bid to acquire MCI, Richard C. Notebaert, the chief executive of Qwest Communications, told investors yesterday.
Mr. Notebaert made his remarks in New York as part of an effort to persuade Wall Street investors and analysts that MCI would be better off rejecting Verizon as a suitor and accepting Qwest as a merger partner.
The Brazilian economy expanded in 2004 at its fastest pace in a decade, with booming exports and a sharp increase in consumer spending helping it rebound from three years of meager growth.
The government statistics agency said Tuesday that the gross domestic product increased 5.2 percent last year, the best performance since 1994, when Brazil adopted a new currency, the real, to curb rampant inflation. In 2003, the economy, South America's largest, expanded by just 0.54 percent.
With Martha Stewart's release from prison a few days away, the longtime publisher of her company's magazines has resigned.
The publisher, Suzanne Sobel, said in a statement yesterday that she was leaving ''to seek out new challenges.'' She is also an executive vice president of Martha Stewart Living Omnimedia. Ms. Sobel joined the company in 1991 and became publisher of Martha Stewart Living in 1997, according to the company's Web site. The company said yesterday that Lauren Podlach Stanich, another executive vice president and the president of publishing, would take over for Ms. Sobel during the search for a successor.
Bernard J. Ebbers, the former WorldCom chief executive accused of securities fraud, testified yesterday that he had no idea his deputies were hiding billions of dollars in expenses from 2000 to 2002.
Referring to expenses that were hidden to inflate the company's earnings, David Anders, an assistant United States attorney, asked Mr. Ebbers: ''WorldCom reduced its line costs through adjustments of more than $2 billion, and you had no idea?''
The Los Angeles Times yesterday scaled back its national edition, which circulated in Washington and New York, to a smaller version that will be delivered to opinion makers.
The good news for the Los Angeles Times was that the Tribune Company, which acquired the paper in 2000, reversed its decision to kill the edition entirely.
Call it the case of the disappearing Prilosec.
For a year, supplies of Prilosec OTC, a popular heartburn drug sold over the counter, have fallen far short of demand. Procter & Gamble, which markets the drug, first promised that more Prilosec would be available by December, and then by January.
The bankruptcy legislation being debated by the Senate is intended to make it harder for people to walk away from their credit card and other debts. But legal specialists say the proposed law leaves open an increasingly popular loophole that lets wealthy people protect substantial assets from creditors even after filing for bankruptcy.
The loophole involves the use of so-called asset protection trusts. For years, wealthy people looking to keep their money out of the reach of domestic creditors have set up these trusts offshore. But since 1997, lawmakers in five states -- Alaska, Delaware, Nevada, Rhode Island and Utah -- have passed legislation exempting assets held domestically in such trusts from the federal bankruptcy code. People who want to establish trusts do not have to reside the five states; they need only set their trust up through an institution in one of them.
Senior officials of the Bush administration told a Senate panel on Tuesday that the nation's companies should use ''mark to market'' values, or numbers that more closely reflect current market values, for their pension funds. Their remarks drew criticism from both business and labor representatives who testified.
Mark Warshawsky, the assistant Treasury secretary for economic policy, told the Senate Finance Committee that pension funding rules were inaccurate, permitting companies to shortchange their pension plans and mask their weaknesses. These practices, he said, jeopardize the benefits of millions of workers and undermine the finances of the federal agency that insures them.
The Russian government will go ahead with a planned merger of Gazprom, the country's natural gas monopoly, and Rosneft, a state-controlled oil company, but the new state energy giant will not include the prize oil fields from the embattled Yukos oil company.
Instead Yuganskneftegas, which controls the former Yukos oil fields that pump one million barrels a day, will be run as a stand-alone company, Gazprom and Rosneft officials said on Wednesday.
DISABILITY insurance could be the Achilles' heel of President Bush's efforts to carve personal accounts out of Social Security (although there is a lot of competition for that distinction). The program faces challenges that are at least as daunting as those on the retirement side of Social Security, and fitting the existing program into a system of personal accounts could have serious unintended consequences.
Disability insurance is the Eisenhower-era program added to Social Security to provide financial support for people with a disability that prevents them from working. Some 90 percent of workers are covered. The program is financed by a 1.8 percent payroll tax and has a trust fund that, on paper, is separate from the Old Age and Survivors Insurance trust fund. Benefits are computed using the Social Security retirement benefit formula.
Martha Stewart's name may be enough to sell magazines, but Newsweek magazine apparently does not think her body is.
On its cover this week, Newsweek features what appears to be a photo of Ms. Stewart but is actually an image combining a photo of her face and one of a model's body. The idea, an editor at the magazine said, was to portray Ms. Stewart as she may appear when she emerges from prison in a few days -- slimmer and stronger than ever.
At many union halls in Michigan, signs on parking lots still warn that foreign-made cars ''will be towed away at owner's expense.''
So why is Michigan's Democratic governor, Jennifer M. Granholm, pushing so hard to close a sweetheart land deal with Toyota Motor?
Businesses that pay billions to Google and Overture to steer potential customers to their Web sites are increasingly questioning how much fraud lurks in the blossoming pay-per-click model of advertising.
There is evidence that at least some scammers are clicking away at the ads, or having programs called hitbots or clickbots do it for them, with the knowledge that each click costs an advertiser money. Some of the troublemakers are disgruntled employees; some are companies trying to force competitors' ad spending up; some are even Web page operators who let search engines deliver ads to their sites and then collect a cut when people click on those ads.
In a broad and blistering attack, federal prosecutors accused Bernard J. Ebbers, the former chief executive of WorldCom, of being caught in a ''perfect storm of corruption'' that led him to order deputies to commit a multibillion-dollar fraud.
''We all know money can corrupt people, power can corrupt people and pressure can corrupt people,'' William F. Johnson, an assistant United States attorney, said yesterday in the prosecution's closing arguments in the case against Mr. Ebbers in Federal District Court in Manhattan. ''Money, power and pressure all corrupted Bernard J. Ebbers to commit fraud on a billion-dollar scale.''
In a significant victory for large biotechnology companies like Monsanto, Brazil's lower house of Congress has overwhelmingly approved legislation paving the way for the legalization of genetically modified crops.
After months of delays and heated debate, legislators passed a biotechnology law late Wednesday night by a vote of 352 to 60. The bill had pitted farmers and scientists against environmental and religious groups. Besides lifting a longstanding ban on the sale and planting of gene-altered seeds, the legislation also clears the way for research involving human embryonic stem cells that have been frozen for at least three years.
It took more than three years of stop-and-go negotiations, threats, political maneuvers and court battles, but the largest government debt default in history finally ended here Thursday, as the Argentine government announced that 76 percent of its creditors had accepted a proposal that will pay them at most 30 cents on each dollar.
President Néstor Kirchner, who ignored suggestions that he seek a quick settlement and took an overtly confrontational approach, this week gleefully described the restructuring of $102.6 billion in bonds held mostly by foreigners as ''the greatest deal ever'' for a country in negotiations with creditors. In comparison, Russia offered bondholders half their money back after a huge default in 1998.
The boardroom and family battles at Cablevision Systems took a new turn yesterday as the company said it would delay shutting the Voom satellite television service to give Charles F. Dolan, the Cablevision chairman, more time to assemble a deal to buy the business.
Another twist emerged later in the day, when an independent committee of directors accused Mr. Dolan of expanding Voom through his newly created Web site in violation of his agreement with Cablevision. A letter from the committee said it was ''imperative that the expansion of the business stop immediately.''
Shortly after a SARS crisis scared many people off the streets of this city, Henry M. Paulson Jr., the chief executive of Goldman Sachs, flew here for a quiet dinner on June 4, 2003, with two of China's most influential power brokers.
They worked out a remarkable deal, approved last year by President Hu Jintao, that marks a triumph for Goldman -- the creation of a joint venture that gives the firm greater access than any other foreign investment bank to China's increasingly lucrative financial services market.
America's consumers extended their bargain shopping spree for another month in February.
Reflecting an improving economy, consumers took advantage of stores' final clearance sales and stocked up on the newest fashions for spring.
Aon, the world's second-largest insurance broker, is close to a settlement with the attorneys general of New York, Connecticut and Illinois that would end investigations into hidden incentive payments that it received from insurance companies. A settlement could be announced as early as today.
Aon, based in Chicago, has agreed to pay about $190 million over several years, people close to the case said. The money will be designated as restitution to commercial insurance customers of Aon around the country who paid it to provide unbiased advice on obtaining the best coverage at the lowest prices.
Top executives of Aon, the world's second-largest insurance broker, directed transactions that helped mislead customers and possibly increased costs for them, the New York attorney general, Eliot Spitzer, said yesterday. The accusations were made in a complaint that was filed as the company reached settlements with New York, Connecticut and Illinois.
To end the investigations, Aon agreed to pay restitution of $190 million to its customers and pledged to conduct business fairly and openly.
Four major investment banks that helped sell WorldCom bonds to the public two years before the company collapsed agreed yesterday to pay a little more than $100 million to settle with investors who lost money in the deals.
Lehman Brothers, Credit Suisse First Boston, Goldman Sachs and UBS reached a proposed settlement with Alan G. Hevesi, the New York State comptroller and trustee of the state's Common Retirement Fund and lead plaintiff in the WorldCom securities class action.
The stock market rose yesterday to its highest levels since the summer of 2001, after a strong February jobs report seemed to bolster confidence in consumers' ability to keep spending.
The gains in stocks came even as the price of oil has remained above $50 a barrel and interest rates have climbed.
Each shift, 200 workers, most of them women in smocks and bibs, labor in a factory tucked away in hilly farmland outside this city assembling a single product, one-inch hard drives.
As China's emerging industrial centers go, Guiyang is an obscure outpost, bearing little resemblance to the booming factory towns of the east coast. And yet, as much as any other place in China this hard drive assembly may be at the front line of an intense global struggle to dominate high-tech manufacturing.
Martha Stewart returned in the early morning hours yesterday to one of her homes, a sprawling model farm in rural Westchester County. And there she found that not much had changed since she last roamed free, with reporters and photographers camped by the dozen in front of her house and the public keenly interested in every detail of her post-prison existence.
She passed around coffee and doughnuts to reporters gathered outside her property. And she strolled from building to building on the grounds, wearing a long winter-white coat and clearly displaying a happy mood, even waving to a helicopter hovering 1,000 feet overhead.
IT is relatively easy for most of us to change our minds. You said you wanted Chinese food, but now Italian sounds better? No big deal. A week in the Caribbean seemed a good idea, but now you'd rather go skiing. A couple of phone calls, and it is done.
Altering course when you are an expert in your field is harder. In books coming into stores this month, three authors tackle these shifts -- with varying success.
MOST parents expect to have a good 16 or 17 years after a child is born before they have to worry about finding the best place for that child to begin a life of independence.
They know they may have to check out dozens of options, get a good adviser, pay some steep fees and determine the child's primary interests -- not to mention figure out how to stay in touch once the child has left the nest.
SOCIAL SECURITY may have done more to help the poor than any other government program in American history. Established in 1935 with the explicit objective of protecting the elderly from poverty, it has relied on a heavily skewed benefit formula that pays lower-income workers a higher share of their wages than those at the top of the earnings ladder.
The results? According to government figures, old-age poverty has dropped from about 50 percent in the 1930's to around 10 percent today. Most of the credit goes to Social Security.
THE Dolans, that increasingly dysfunctional family that controls Cablevision, would make a great reality television series.
The story has it all -- a little Shakespeare, some Sophocles and a lot of Norman Lear. And, oh, what characters! Charles F. Dolan, the legendary yet fanatical father who founded the cable giant; James, the former substance-abusing son turned would-be company hero; Tom, the ''other'' son you've never heard of who is clearly the father's favorite; and the rest of the gang, all living at the family compound in Bethpage, N.Y.
For three days last Christmas week, Janet Suckling haunted the Delta Air Lines baggage area at the Cincinnati/Northern Kentucky International Airport waiting for the arrival of a bag in which her wedding dress and her husband-to-be's tuxedo had been packed.
''They had no idea where the bag went,'' she said. ''I spent all three days crying.''
Here in this state's largest beef-processing plant, the butchering of cattle to feed Americans' appetite for meat goes on. Knife-wielding workers break down carcasses from the round to the chuck, while automated conveyors package 1,000 boxes an hour of 150 products.
But in a conference room inside the plant there was a palpable gloom among 10 of the state's cattlemen, whose farms provide the cattle that keep Tyson Food's plant running.
Saudi women may not be allowed to vote or to drive, but Islamic law does grant them the right to control their finances. A few years ago, Saudi banks started opening social branches for women, with separate entrances, distinct product offerings and all-female staffs. But the business of ''ladies' banking,'' as it is known in Saudi Arabia, had remained relatively low key.
But this week, Banque Saudi Fransi plans to start an advertising campaign that breaks with this tradition, promoting women's banking to a mainstream consumer audience. A 40-second television commercial shows a Saudi woman, wearing a hijab, in a variety of settings -- in a business meeting with other women, working at a computer, at her wedding and playing with her children.
The Walt Disney Company has decided to give up on popular science, after all. The company's publishing group has decided to sell Discover magazine to concentrate on its other, family-friendly titles, FamilyFun, Disney Adventure and Disney. The investment bank Veronis Suhler Stevenson will handle the sale.
Discover, a general-interest science magazine covering topics like archaeological finds, viruses and new animal species, was acquired by Disney in 1991. Glenn Rosenbloom, a vice president of Buena Vista Magazines, which is a subsidiary of Disney Publishing Worldwide, said that Discover's advertising revenue increased 20 percent in 2004 over the previous year but was ''off a few percentage points'' at the start of this year.
On the Saturday before the Academy Awards, film executives jammed into a tent on a Santa Monica beach to trade accolades at the Independent Spirit Awards, an event devoted to honoring independent films.
The open secret, of course, is that most independent film labels today are owned by major Hollywood studios: Focus Features, the producer and distributor of ''Eternal Sunshine of the Spotless Mind,'' is owned by NBC-Universal, a division of General Electric, and Fox Searchlight, which produced last year's critical darling, ''Sideways,'' is a part of Rupert Murdoch's multinational behemoth News Corporation.
Donald Jay Alofs got a call last fall at home asking if he had recently bought several thousand dollars worth of electronics. Mr. Alofs had not, and he had a good reason for not being on a spending spree: he was in the hospital at the time.
Things got worse for Mr. Alofs, a coin collector and dealer who buys and sells on eBay. His inbox was soon filled with e-mail messages from irate buyers: someone had used his eBay account to sell about $780,000 worth of coins -- about five times the online business Mr. Alofs had done over several years -- and many of the coins offered for sale never existed.
The Capital One Financial Corporation, one of the nation's biggest credit card companies, said yesterday that it would buy the Hibernia Corporation, a regional banking company based in New Orleans, for $5.35 billion.
Capital One, which is based in McLean, Va., has repeatedly told Wall Street that owning a retail bank would help it lower its cost of borrowing, increase deposits and compete more vigorously in the credit card business.
Barbara D. Finberg, whose management of the Carnegie Corporation of New York helped introduce educational programs for early childhood, including television shows like ''Sesame Street,'' died on Saturday at her home in Manhattan. She was 76.
Ms. Finberg, who had breast cancer, died of respiratory failure, the Carnegie Corporation said in announcing her death.
Martha Stewart, wearing a brown suit, towering heels and no ankle monitor, appeared before a group of her company's employees yesterday, glowing with a post-prison message that promised a new and different purpose for her media empire.
With dozens of reporters looking on, she told the Martha Stewart Living Omnimedia staff that their mission was not just to explain the nuts and bolts of crafts, cooking and housekeeping, but also why those things are important for building relationships in an often uncertain world.
Robert Allbritton, the chairman and chief executive of Riggs National Corporation, abruptly resigned last night.
Mr. Allbritton, 37, said he was leaving because of the bank's pending $652 million merger with PNC Financial Services Group. As the bank's executive committees have taken a more active role since December, Mr. Allbritton has seen his responsibilities vanish. According to an individual close to the bank, he made the decision to leave after conversations with some committee members over the last few days.
Japan looked globalization in the eye on Monday. On television, the new chairman of the Sony Corporation, a ruddy-faced Welsh-American wearing a red tartan tie, was giving a news conference in English.
Japan didn't blink.
The ink is not dry on Sir Howard Stringer's contract as chief executive of the Sony Corporation, but already the entertainment industry is buzzing about whether he will continue to oversee Sony's music and movie divisions in the United States. So far, one thing appears to be abundantly clear: Sir Howard has no plans to give up the reins to the American entertainment operations anytime soon.
Sir Howard called Andrew Lack, chief executive of Sony BMG Music Entertainment, and Michael Lynton, chairman of Sony Pictures Entertainment, from Tokyo on Sunday night and assured them that they would continue to report to him in the newly realigned Sony, according to two Sony executives with knowledge of the discussions.
The Massachusetts Turnpike extends two and a half miles into this city, creating ugly, windswept canyons that force pedestrians to cross bridges with chain-link barriers as they travel between well-preserved historic neighborhoods.
For years, state and local officials have wanted to repair what Mark Maloney, the director of the Boston Redevelopment Authority, describes as ''a tear in the urban fabric,'' but the economy was not strong enough to allow for costly air-rights development over the highway, a segment of Interstate 90.
Oracle announced on Tuesday that it was planning to make a cash offer on Wednesday to purchase the software maker Retek, spurring a possible bidding war with SAP, its main rival in the corporate software market.
Oracle's bid of $9 a share, or $525 million, bests SAP's bid of $496 million, made on Feb. 28. Retek, which is based in Minneapolis and specializes in software packages that large retail chains like Best Buy and Gap use to run their businesses, had already agreed to be acquired by SAP.
Cablevision Systems said yesterday that the board had agreed to give its chairman and founder, Charles F. Dolan, and a son, Thomas, until the end of the month to acquire the assets of its Voom high-definition television operation.
The company was careful to say that the board, which met Monday and again yesterday, approved the move and that Charles Dolan had agreed to finance any costs Cablevision incurred beyond the expenses that would have arisen under its plan to shut down the service.
Delta Air Lines plans to announce today that it will stop selling food on its flights and give passengers a choice of snacks. But the airline is eliminating pillows in an effort to save money.
A Delta senior vice president, Paul Matsen, acknowledged the latest changes might offend passengers who remembered the glamorous days of air travel. But most travelers today are ''value seekers'' to whom the frills of the past have lost importance, Mr. Matsen said yesterday.
Willie Walsh, former chief excecutive of Aer Lingus, will become chief executive-designate of British Airways in early May and take over when Roderick I. Eddington, the current chief executive, steps down in September, British Airways said Tuesday.
The airline hopes that the appointment will continue its turnaround. The process was begun by Mr. Eddington, 55, who is credited with reviving British Airways after the slump that began in 2001 by eliminating around 14,000 jobs in the last three years. In a statement, the chairman of British Airways, Martin F. Broughton, said Mr. Eddington had ''performed miracles.''
The female executive whose romantic relationship with Harry C. Stonecipher led to his ouster this week as Boeing's chief executive has been identified as Debra Peabody, an employee in Washington who has been at Boeing for more than 20 years.
Ms. Peabody, whose identity was disclosed last night by BusinessWeek Online and confirmed by a company official, is a 48-year-old divorced executive who manages office operations for Boeing's chief Washington lobbyist, Rudy deLeon. She is a graduate of Ohio University and received an executive M.B.A. at the University of Washington, which featured her recently in a promotional brochure.
MBIA, a financial services conglomerate that guarantees billions of dollars in bonds, said yesterday that it was restating its financial results for the last seven years because of improper accounting related to two insurance deals it struck in 1998.
The restatement, which amounted to a $54 million net reduction in profit over the period, is related to financial reinsurance agreements MBIA made with Converium Re, a reinsurer previously known as Zurich Reinsurance Centre.
The Bush administration and many health experts have declared that the nation's health care system needs to move quickly from paper records and prescriptions into the computer age. Modern information technology, they insist, can deliver a huge payoff: fewer medical errors, lower costs and better care.
But research papers and an editorial published today in The Journal of the American Medical Association cast doubt on the wisdom of betting heavily that information technology can transform health care anytime soon.
Michael D. Gallagher, a senior official in the Commerce Department, and Kevin J. Martin, a commissioner at the Federal Communications Commission, have emerged as the top contenders to become the next chairman of the F.C.C., administration officials said on Wednesday.
President Bush is expected to announce his choice soon. Michael K. Powell, the current chairman, will preside over his final commission meeting on Thursday. He plans to leave the agency next week after seven and a half years, including four as chairman.
ELABORATE campaigns to promote the action-adventure film ''Sahara'' represent what could be called a second take in efforts by Jeep and Paramount Pictures to market through the multiplex.
The multimillion-dollar campaigns -- on television, in print, online and in theaters and dealer showrooms -- are intended to reflect wisdom gained from miscues the last time Paramount teamed with Jeep, in 2003, to cross-sell ''Lara Croft Tomb Raider: The Cradle of Life,'' with Angelina Jolie.
Noranda, the largest Canadian mining company, announced on Wednesday that it would acquire the 41 percent of the nickel producer Falconbridge Ltd. that it does not already own, in a stock swap worth 3 billion Canadian dollars, or $2.49 billion.
At the same time, Noranda, based in Toronto, said it had ended unpopular negotiations to be acquired by China Minmetals, which is owned by the Beijing government. In September, China Minmetals offered to buy Noranda for about $4.7 billion.
The Bush administration has completed a national security review of the planned sale of I.B.M.'s personal computer business to Lenovo of China, clearing the way for the deal, I.B.M. announced yesterday.
The unusual scrutiny given to the deal mainly reflects the ambivalence in Washington toward China, and its rising economic and military power.
Four foreign banks that helped WorldCom sell bonds the year before it filed for bankruptcy agreed yesterday to pay $428 million to settle with investors, bringing the total payout in the case to $3.56 billion, a record in a securities class action.
The banks that agreed to settle with Alan G. Hevesi, the comptroller of New York and trustee of the state's Common Retirement Fund, are ABN Amro, Mitsubishi Securities, Mizuho International and the BNP Paribas Securities Corporation. All were relatively small participants in a WorldCom bond deal in May 2001; together, they sold 12 percent of the $12 billion offering.
The judge in the criminal trial of Bernard J. Ebbers, the former WorldCom chief executive, told jurors yesterday that they did not need to consider the size and scope of the WorldCom fraud in reaching a verdict on the charges of filing false claims that Mr. Ebbers faces.
Late in the afternoon, the jurors sent a note to Judge Barbara S. Jones of United States District Court in Manhattan asking for clarification on how to interpret several supplemental allegations, which are related to seven counts of filing false claims with securities regulators.
Dr. Zvi Y. Fuks, the Manhattan cancer doctor who was arrested yesterday on securities fraud charges stemming from sales of ImClone Systems stock, was the matchmaker who helped make ImClone successful. He arranged a meeting that led to ImClone's licensing of the cancer drug Erbitux, its first and so far only product.
Dr. Fuks, 68, is chairman of the department of radiation oncology at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center in Manhattan. Specialists in the field described him as a brilliant and charismatic leader who won top awards for research on how radiation kills cancer cells and who helped elevate Memorial Sloan-Kettering's radiation oncology department into one of the strongest in the country.
James A. Bell, the newly named interim chief executive of the Boeing Company, made his Wall Street debut yesterday at an investor conference, stressing continuity while making it clear he had no plans to remain in the position.
''Clearly we are disappointed and saddened by the circumstances of the resignation of Harry Stonecipher,'' said Mr. Bell, 56, who had been chief financial officer and was elevated on Monday after the sudden departure of Mr. Stonecipher, who was ousted for having a personal relationship with a female Boeing executive.
A former New York Stock Exchange floor clerk was arrested yesterday and accused of passing on confidential information about trades to an unnamed day trader who made more than $300,000 on the illegally obtained information.
The clerk, Frank J. Furino, a 48-year-old former employee of Lawrence Helfant, which was acquired by the Jefferies Group investment bank in late 2001, was indicted on nine counts of securities fraud and commercial bribes. He pleaded not guilty in Federal District Court in Brooklyn and was released on a $300,000 bond.
In 1997, the year Sir Howard Stringer joined the Sony Corporation, Japan's premium electronics company, it took little notice of the Samsung Electronics Company, a South Korean television maker fighting a life-or-death battle to survive the Asian currency crisis.
Less than a decade later, Samsung now has twice the market capitalization of Sony, which this week named Sir Howard its chairman.
Coach is accusing Louis Vuitton of pressuring several Japanese department stores to unfairly deprive Coach of floor space.
Coach, the American leather and accessories company, filed a complaint against LVMH Moet Hennessy Louis Vuitton, the giant luxury conglomerate, in Tokyo yesterday morning. The matter is to be investigated by the Japanese Fair Trade Commission, according to a press release issued by Coach.
DELTA AIR LINES is trying to pull off what may be an impossible task with its new campaign: get passengers to ignore the bleak headlines they are reading on board.
Even as the latest commercials in Delta's new campaign began running this week, the airline said in a regulatory filing yesterday that it expected a ''substantial net loss'' in 2005.
Ray Ozzie, whose popular Lotus Notes software helped demonstrate the power of office PC networks in the early 1990's, has gone to work for the PC software king, Bill Gates of Microsoft.
Mr. Ozzie's company, Groove Networks, develops software intended to permit simple collaboration by workers using desktop or portable computers, whether they are in the same office or connected via the Internet.
FIVE years later, the great bubble of 2000 does not look so bad. The conventional wisdom now is that it was not all that important, certainly nothing like the great bubbles of 20th-century stock market history, those of the United States in 1929 and Japan in 1989.
But there are similarities indicating that it could be a very long time before technology stocks as a group become good long-term investments again.
China reported a trade surplus of $11 billion in the first two months of this year, according to data released by the commerce ministry Thursday.
China's exports swelled to $95 billion in January and February, up 36 percent from the period a year earlier. Imports grew by 8 percent, to $84 billion.
Since the Depression, General Motors has reigned as the world's largest automaker and a pillar of American economic might. But now the company is broadly struggling and facing the humbling possibility that it will be displaced by Toyota at the top of the auto industry within a few years.
General Motors, which controlled nearly half the American market as recently as the late 1970's, held about one-quarter in February. Last week, the company said that it would produce 300,000 fewer cars and trucks in North America in the first half of this year, a 10 percent drop from a year ago.
As the music industry confronts declining sales, the Warner Music Group said yesterday that it had filed to sell up to $750 million of stock in an initial public offering.
The company, which is the smallest of the world's four major record conglomerates by market share, said it expected to sell its stock on either the New York Stock Exchange or the Nasdaq. It did not detail the number of shares it planned to offer or their expected price range.
The chief executive of Wal-Mart's British supermarket chain, Asda, will leave in the next few weeks, and become chief of the far smaller Dutch retailer, Royal Vendex.
Asda announced the departure of its chief, Tony DeNunzio, on Friday, catching some analysts and investors by surprise. They speculated that his recent failure to increase Asda's market share against its top-ranked competitor Tesco might have caused him to look for another job.
J.T. Battenberg III, chairman and chief executive of Delphi, has been a steady hand in an uncertain industry.
At least until last week.
At the Charles Schwab branch near Rockefeller Center, it is impossible to escape the face of the brokerage firm's founder and namesake. ''Age 65 comes faster than you think,'' reads one of several images of Mr. Schwab in the windows of the office. ''Trust me.''
Charles R. Schwab, who is 67, should know what he's talking about. Another image assures customers that ''my name is on the door and 100 percent of my commitment is behind it.''
Qwest Communications International Inc. is expected to raise its $8 billion bid for MCI Inc. next week in an attempt to break up MCI's deal with Verizon Communications Inc., according to people close to the situation.
The new offer would come after MCI spurned Qwest's bid last month and opted to sign a deal with Verizon for $6.75 billion, or 16 percent less. To assuage angry shareholders, MCI agreed to reopen talks with Qwest.
Buy a T-shirt at Wal-Mart, fleece sweats at J.C. Penney or Hanes panties anywhere in the United States, and there's a halfway decent chance that they were stitched together here, in an acre-size garment factory crammed with thousands of frantically clacking sewing machines. Virtually its entire output, 25,000 items of clothing daily, is America-bound.
These days, that is a disaster. ''Two thousand people work here, and unfortunately last week I had to retrench 500 people, because there are no orders,'' Boodia Heman, director of the Ever Unison Garments factory, said in a recent interview. ''The American buyer is not coming to Lesotho to buy.''
THE current wave of mergers and acquisitions is just the beginning of a major period of corporate consolidation, says Dennis J. Block, co-chairman of M.&A. for the New York law firm Cadwalader, Wickersham & Taft, who has played a role in many mergers. Here are excerpts from a recent conversation:
Q. We're seeing proposed mergers like Procter & Gamble's plan to acquire Gillette and Federated's plan to buy May Department Stores, as well as proposed deals involving AT&T and MCI. But companies like Citigroup and American Express are spinning off certain assets. What's going on?
MARC LEVINE opened a closet in the living room of his Manhattan apartment to reveal two unframed drawings. Then he laughed about a recently purchased photograph -- still in bubble packaging -- that he had lent to the neighbors. He has no wall space left for these works; his apartment is already covered floor to ceiling with photographs, prints and paintings.
Mr. Levine, 38, who owns Model Bartenders Inc., an event staffing company, has collected more than 40 works of art, from a $15,000 sculpture by Robert Graham that he won with a $100 raffle ticket to dozens of smaller prints and photographs for which he paid only a few hundred dollars each, often at charity art auctions. ''I love art, and I collect on an emotional level,'' Mr. Levine said. ''It's something that I can put on my wall and enjoy. And what better way to collect art than to support charities.''
LILLIAN had already put in a full day's work at a cable company when she hit the streets of Manhattan on a cold January night, heading out on her second job.
Armed with a thermometer and a portable scale, she went to a branch of a well-known coffee chain, not for a caffeine jolt, but for a shopping version of a sneak attack.
It has become the icon for an era of excess: the precipitate collapse of Enron, played out over the final weeks of 2001. Now, Kenneth L. Lay, Enron's former chairman, faces federal charges that he lied about the company's financial state in those weeks; his criminal trial is scheduled to begin next January.
A new book, ''Conspiracy of Fools: A True Story'' by Kurt Eichenwald, a reporter for The New York Times, provides a behind-the-scenes look at Enron's rise and fall, including those crucial final days before its demise. The narrative was reconstructed through more than a thousand hours of interviews and thousands of documents, including records of secret witness statements to law enforcement officials. Following is Part 1 of excerpts from the book, which will be published tomorrow by the Broadway Books imprint of Random House; Part 2 of the excerpts will appear next week in Sunday Business.
WILLIAM A. WISE hit the jackpot when his company hit its number. After the El Paso Corporation, the energy company in Houston, reported a profit of $93 million in 2001, Mr. Wise, its chief executive, was rewarded with a $3.4 million bonus, 768,250 stock options, $1.7 million of restricted stock and $3.7 million in ''other compensation.'' And that was on top of his regular salary of $1.3 million.
Just two years later, however, El Paso had this to say about its performance leading up to Mr. Wise's big payday back then: Oops!
One definition of an optimist would be someone who helps to manage a foundation working for global peace and predicts that the Chicago Cubs this year will win their first World Series since 1908.
That someone would be Donald V. Fites, who ran Caterpillar Inc., the huge maker of earth-moving equipment, from 1990 to 1999.
Rising oil prices and climbing bond yields set back the stock market last week. All three major stock indexes lost ground, and they ended the week in negative territory for the year.
The main culprit was the jump in the price of crude oil, which on Wednesday briefly matched its record high of $55.65 a barrel in futures trading in New York. The surging oil price had repercussions in the bond market, where concerns mounted over inflation in the broader economy. Prices fell and yields rose. The yield of the benchmark 10-year Treasury note moved up to 4.54 percent by Friday, from 4.31 percent the previous week, for the biggest weekly jump since May.
''A teacher says that he isn't giving a test grade back until Monday, because he hasn't finished grading them all,'' a participant wrote in an online forum at collegeconfidential.com last Wednesday. ''You walk by his desk and notice that yours is done and on the top of the stack.
''Would it be unethical to walk close to his desk on the way out and sneak a peek?''
The wife of Harry C. Stonecipher, who resigned as chief executive of the Boeing Company last week after its board learned of his affair with a female executive at the company, has filed for divorce after 50 years of marriage.
Donald Schiller, the lawyer for Joan Stonecipher, confirmed yesterday that Mrs. Stonecipher filed a petition on Thursday with the Cook County Circuit Court in Chicago, where Boeing is based.
In the feverish contest among so-called lad magazines to win readers at the newsstand, it is hard to say whether FHM has gone too far or perhaps not far enough.
Its April cover, featuring the naked backside of a popular model, Vida Guerra, prompted some managers of Kroger and Ralphs supermarkets in Texas, Louisiana and California to keep the issue off shelves.
The mild recession that Japan fell into last year has not only ended, but it did not last as long as previously reported, new figures released Monday showed.
The government revised its data for the fourth quarter of 2004 to an annualized growth rate of 0.5 percent, from a preliminary estimate of a 0.5 percent decline.
Here's how many miles I just spent to get one free business-class ticket from New York to Shanghai and back next November -- and not even on the days I had originally wanted to fly: 240,000.
My wife, my mother-in-law and I are going to Shanghai to visit relatives. My wife booked her business-class award ticket and her mother's more than six weeks ago. Their tickets cost 270,000 miles for the two.
Landmark Theaters, the art-house chain controlled by Mark Cuban and Todd Wagner, will become the first chain to install a new generation of digital projectors developed by Sony, which show movies at twice the resolution of previous digital projectors.
Landmark will buy six of the Sony projectors when they become available in July, and over the next few years will install others in all 58 of its theaters, Mr. Cuban said.
I started flying young, if accidentally, in 1947 on propeller planes such as Dakotas and Super Constellations. The summer I was 15, I traveled with my mother by boat and train to Montreux, Switzerland, where she was born, for vacation. At summer's end she returned to the United States and I stayed on to attend a French language and literature class for foreign students at the local high school.
In December, when the semester ended, I took a train to Paris and the next day to Le Havre where I was supposed to take a boat. The French labor unions went on strike and since the transportation workers were involved, the boat didn't leave. On the third day, the steamship line transported all passengers back to Paris. There were reports of tanks in the streets and rumors of a Communist takeover.
Bartolo Mascarello, a Barolo winemaker whose enduring adherence to traditional practices in the face of changing fashions made him a symbol of staunch loyalty, died Saturday at his home in the town of Barolo, Italy. He was 78.
The cause was cardiac arrest, said his daughter, Maria-Téresa. She said Mr. Mascarello had had heart problems for many years.
After failing to acquire WMC Resources of Australia, the Swiss mining company Xstrata has a new growth strategy that could include another multibillion-dollar takeover attempt.
In a letter last week to employees, Xstrata's chief executive, Michael Davis, said the company had failed to bring home the ''treasure'' -- WMC -- but that it was working on new ventures, a person who read the letter said. One of the ventures ''is more exciting than WMC'' and one of them is ''more doable,'' the letter said.
China plans to hold talks with the United States and Europe to try to avoid trouble over China's rapidly growing exports of clothing, the government-run New China News Agency has reported.
A delegation from the Chinese government will visit Washington and Brussels to tryo persuade officials not to act against exports of clothing by China, the news agency said on Sunday, citing Wang Shenyang, president of the China Chamber of Commerce for Import and Export of Textiles.
Even as oil prices flirt with record highs, a growing number of people in the energy industry, including the chairman of Exxon Mobil, are voicing concern over whether the soaring oil prices are justified by supply-and-demand conditions in the market. Some are even comparing the trading in energy markets to the speculative frenzy in technology stocks in the late 1990's.
The concerns are being raised as officials in pivotal oil-producing nations have aggressively signaled that prices may remain high or be pushed up even more in coming months.
American International Group will be a vastly different company without Maurice R. Greenberg, the chief executive who has personified the giant insurer for decades and has set the tone for its hard-charging way of doing business.
Mr. Greenberg will be succeeded by the British-born Martin J. Sullivan, 50, one of the company's two chief operating officers. Mr. Sullivan faces many challenges as he follows in the footsteps of an industry legend.
Genentech Inc.'s cancer drug Avastin prolonged the lives of patients with advanced lung cancer in a clinical trial, a result that sent the company's shares soaring and could pave the way for wider use of what is widely considered the company's most promising product.
In the trial, sponsored by the National Cancer Institute, patients who received Avastin along with standard chemotherapy drugs had a median survival of 12.5 months, compared with 10.2 months for those receiving only the chemotherapy.
With the ouster of the American International Group's chief executive, Maurice R. Greenberg, the turnover at the top of American companies is starting to look like a 10-car pileup. The upheaval is the strongest sign yet that boards are reacting forcefully to changes in governance put in place to clean up the scandal-ridden landscape of the last few years.
The departures have multiplied this year, after last year's decision by Michael D. Eisner to give up his post as Disney's chairman after a shareholder revolt, and the forced retirement by Franklin D. Raines from Fannie Mae. The announcement that Mr. Greenberg would be stepping down as chief executive amid several regulatory inquiries brings to seven the number of high-profile executives who have been replaced, mostly against their will, in the last three months.
One way of reading the new report by the Insurance Institute for Highway Safety is that the Mercedes E-Class sedan has the safest design of any car or truck and the two-door Chevrolet Blazer the worst.
Another way to read the report, to be released Tuesday, is that E-Class drivers tend to drive more carefully than Blazer drivers.
Duke Power met with the Nuclear Regulatory Commission employees for three hours on Monday to discuss the costs and schedule for something no one in this country has done in decades: seek permission to build a nuclear power plant.
The company, a division of Duke Energy, said that it was considering three reactor designs and that it would need a plant in 10 to 15 years to serve the Piedmont region of the Carolinas.
Maurice R. Greenberg, the executive who built American International Group into a global insurance powerhouse and shaped an entire industry during nearly 40 years at the company's helm, stepped down as chief executive yesterday after a series of run-ins with regulators raised questions about its complex and often obscure operations.
His exit came after lengthy discussions by the company's directors in recent days and appeared intended to avert a head-on collision with two regulators: the Securities and Exchange Commission and Eliot Spitzer, the New York attorney general.
US Airways said last night that Republic Airways Holding had agreed to invest $125 million in the airline once it emerges from bankruptcy protection. It was the second such investment that US Airways has obtained in the last month and greatly increases its chances of surviving.
Under the agreement, US Airways could sell some of its slots at La Guardia Airport to Republic, the parent company of Chautauqua Airlines and Republic Airlines. Both Chautauqua and Republic fly as US Airways Express.
The BlackBerry maker Research in Motion is broadening its menu of instant-messaging options. New services for the hand-held communications device include instant messaging offerings from Yahoo and the America Online unit of Time Warner, the companies announced yesterday in conjunction with the CTIA Wireless show in New Orleans. Research in Motion also announced software deals with Sybase and High Tech Computer. The BlackBerry will be preloaded with Yahoo's software ''in the coming months,'' the companies said, without being more specific. Yahoo Messenger users will have full wireless access to their contacts and be able to carry on multiple chat sessions. Currently, BlackBerry users can obtain access to Yahoo offerings like search, news and sports updates, depending on availability through phone carriers. Research in Motion is also working with America Online to include AOL Instant Messenger and ICQ services on the BlackBerry, besides offering AOL's mobile mail service. BlackBerry users will get access to their AOL Buddy List feature or ICQ contact list for chatting on both networks. No schedule was given for when the services would be available. Two years ago, AOL ended a deal with Research in Motion in which the two companies offered a co-branded wireless messaging device. Shortly after that, Research in Motion began equipping the BlackBerry with instant-messaging software from I.B.M.'s Lotus division.The Hertz Corporation, which last month withdrew a planned $2.50 booking fee after customers protested, has quietly embarked on another revenue-raising experiment by slashing its grace period for late vehicles in Europe and other international locations to 29 minutes from 59 minutes. Hertz, a unit of the Ford Motor Company, has also made formal a new currency exchange fee for certain overseas customers.
The new policy on returns, which goes into effect April 4, is aimed at achieving ''greater fleet flexibility and availability,'' according to a Hertz spokeswoman, Paula Stifter. It means that if customers show up more than 29 minutes late, they will be charged for another rental day. The changes affect travelers renting cars in Europe, the Middle East and Africa, Ms. Stifter said. The grace period for United States rentals will remain 59 minutes.
Bowing to pressure from consuming nations, including the United States, the president of OPEC said Tuesday that the oil exporting group was considering an increase in its production ceiling to help bring oil prices down from their current highs.
Sheik Ahmad Fahad al-Ahmad al-Sabah, the president of OPEC, who is also Kuwait's oil minister, said the proposal that the oil ministers were considering would raise the group's quota in two steps by as much as a million barrels of oil a day -- an immediate 500,000-barrel-a-day increase followed by an option to increase by another half a million barrels by May. The plan has to be approved on Wednesday, when the formal conference of oil ministers from the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries meets here.
The Vodafone Group, the world's largest mobile telecommunications company, is buying $3.5 billion worth of Romanian and Czech mobile assets from Telesystem International Wireless of Canada, the companies said on Tuesday.
Vodafone is picking up a 79 percent stake in MobiFon of Romania, which serves about half of the country's nearly 10 million mobile customers, and all of Oskar Mobil, which has 1.8 million customers in the Czech Republic. Vodafone already owned 20 percent of MobiFon.
On trial for perpetrating one of the biggest corporate frauds ever, Bernard J. Ebbers, the former chief executive of WorldCom, helped to convict himself.
''It hurt him,'' said one juror, who asked not to be identified.
Another one down. How many more to go?
The conviction of Bernard J. Ebbers, the former chairman of WorldCom Inc., on charges that he helped orchestrate the far-reaching accounting fraud at the company is bad news for more than just Mr. Ebbers and his family.
Since the beginning of the 1990's, thousands of aspiring entrepreneurs have moved away from unemployment or welfare by borrowing a few thousand dollars -- even as little as $500 -- to set up their own small business.
Diane Holloway, a single mother and out-of-work pastry chef, used a $5,000 loan from a local women's economic agency in Silver City, N.M., several years ago to cobble together a restaurant in an old storefront, cooking for customers with a scavenged pizza oven and serving them on a half-dozen mismatched tables.
General Motors' prediction of a loss in the first quarter and a new high for the price of crude oil were just too much for stocks yesterday, as the three main market gauges dropped 0.8 percent or more. European stock markets also fell on the news.
The stock market decline was led by economically sensitive stocks, including G.M. The automaker's struggles, along with oil at $56.46 a barrel, could be signaling a fall-off in consumer spending, which would mean slower economic growth and lower corporate earnings.
A Senate panel heard testimony on Wednesday that the Future Combat Systems, the costliest Army program ever conceived, faces huge technological hurdles and the potential for multibillion-dollar cost overruns.
Paul L. Francis of the acquisition and sourcing management group of the Government Accountability Office told the Senate Armed Services Committee that building the first part of the program, which aims to rebuild the United States Army as a networked force, will cost at least $108 billion. He said that sum would represent only a down payment, enough to cover about a third of the forces that the Army wants to equip.
China's central bank said late Wednesday that it was raising the interest rate on mortgages, after more signs emerged that the country's economy might be growing at an unsustainable pace as property prices soar.
The minimum interest rate for housing loans of five years or more will rise to 5.51 percent, from 5.31 percent. Banks will also be encouraged to require down payments equal to 30 percent of the purchase price, instead of 20 percent, in cities that have experienced especially rapid appreciation lately, the People's Bank of China said in a statement on its Web site.
As the bitter debate over computer file sharing heads toward the Supreme Court, the pro-technology camp is growing increasingly anxious.
Some technologists warn that if the court decides in favor of the music and recording industries after hearing arguments in the MGM v. Grokster case on March 29, the ruling could also stifle a proliferating set of new Internet-based services that have nothing to do with the sharing of copyrighted music and movies at issue in the court case.
Research In Motion, maker of the popular BlackBerry messaging device, settled a three-year-old patent dispute Wednesday by agreeing to pay $450 million to NTP, a company that holds a patent on a primitive form of wireless e-mail.
In exchange for the one-time payment, NTP will give Research In Motion ''an unfettered right to continue its BlackBerry-related wireless business without further interference from NTP or its patents,'' R.I.M. said in a statement. The case was being appealed in Virginia.
Raymond Simko, the former media director on a federal antidrug account at the New York office of Ogilvy & Mather Worldwide, part of the WPP Group, pleaded guilty yesterday in federal court to charges related to overbilling for advertising work on the account.
Mr. Simko, 56, pleaded guilty to charges of conspiring to defraud the government, filing false claims and making false statements. His pleas came three weeks after two former colleagues, Thomas Early and Shona Seifert, were found guilty on charges that they also took part in the overbilling in 1999 and 2000.
THE single-cell paramecium is about the size of the period at the end of this sentence. In many species, mature cells divide daily into two daughter cells. In schools around the world, this feature has made the paramecium a favorite vehicle for illustrating the miracle of compound interest.
Left unchecked for 64 days, a single paramecium would become a colony of 9,223,400,000,000,000,000 members. Since 125 paramecia lined up shoulder-to-shoulder would span about an inch, this means a string spanning more than 1,164,600,000,000 miles -- over 6,000 round trips between the Earth and sun.
Viacom said yesterday that it was weighing a plan to divide its businesses into two public companies, a move that would unravel years of empire building by the chief executive, Sumner M. Redstone, while resolving the company's succession issues.
One company, led by Leslie Moonves, the co-president, would include CBS, its television stations, outdoor advertising and radio. The other, to be led by the co-president Tom Freston, would include MTV, Nickelodeon, Showtime and the other cable networks. It would also include Paramount Pictures, Paramount Television and Simon & Schuster.
Biogen Idec's multiple sclerosis drug Avonex might cause severe liver damage in rare cases, the company and the Food and Drug Administration said yesterday.
The warning was another blow, though probably only a glancing one, to Biogen, which is already reeling from the halt in sales of its other multiple sclerosis drug, Tysabri, which was linked to a rare brain infection.
Toys ''R'' Us, once the most powerful toy seller in the country, will be sold to a team of two private equity firms and a real estate developer-- Kohlberg Kravis Roberts and Bain Capital Partners, along with Vornado Realty Trust -- for about $6 billion, people involved in the negotiations said last night.
The deal is for the company's faster-growing baby supplies division, Babies ''R'' Us, as well as the 640 Toys ''R'' Us stores. But in the end, the sale, which is expected to be announced today, may be as much about real estate as toys.
The ''ownership society'' envisioned by President Bush from creating private Social Security accounts is nothing new for the many millions of Americans already investing for their retirement through 401(k) plans and the like.
One thing stands out from that quarter-century of experience: those with relatively large surpluses to invest -- mostly those at the top of the earnings ladder -- have managed to amass enough wealth to serve them well in retirement. But farther down the income scale, a number of workers have been unable to handle money intended for their old age as successfully.
IN the annals of Wall Street disasters, a special place of dishonor should be reserved for the bosses of good companies who were so gullible or foolish that they agreed to exchange their company's stock for shares in a company whose value was inflated by fraud or fad.
There were several memorable deals in the recent bubble. Time Warner agreed to surrender most of its stock to owners of America Online, which was riding high, and became AOL Time Warner. MCI, a solid company in a declining business, sold out for shares in WorldCom, which had been put together by Bernard J. Ebbers, a man who now tells us that he never knew much of anything about either finance or communications technology.
For the eighth year in a row, The New Yorker dominated the nominations for the National Magazine Awards, which were announced yesterday.
The weekly New Yorker received 10 nominations in 9 categories in the 40th annual award lineup. The categories include best magazine for general excellence among magazines with a circulation of one million to two million, and best of the public interest category for three articles by Seymour M. Hersh last May, including one on the Abu Ghraib prison scandal.
Just days after Maurice R. Greenberg stepped down as chief executive of the American International Group, he continues to hold a powerful sway over the management of the insurance giant.
Mr. Greenberg's unusual control stems largely from his role as a top executive of two related, private entities, C.V. Starr and the Starr International Company. As a result, he holds the reins over the vehicles that dole out compensation to A.I.G. executives. Mr. Greenberg is also still chairman of Starr Foundation, one of the nation's largest private foundations, which makes contributions to organizations and charities run by the company's directors.
For Sumner M. Redstone, it is not just billions of dollars that are riding on his proposal to split his company into two pieces.
It is his legacy.
Talks by private equity firms and the majority owner of TIM Hellas, the Greek telecommunications company, again failed to produce a purchase agreement Friday, opening the door for a takeover fight.
The two firms, Apax Partners and the Texas Pacific Group, approached Telecom Italia last month about buying its 80 percent stake in TIM Hellas; analysts estimate that the stake may be worth as much as 2 billion euros ($2.7 billion). Exclusive talks among the three parties officially ended last week, but informal talks continued late Friday.
At last month's Chicago Auto Show, the Honda Motor Company offered reporters a sneak preview of a Civic coupe. The car will not be available for sale until the fall, however, and for Honda executives that cannot come soon enough.
A look at recent sales figures for the current Civic shows why. After slumping 9.3 percent in January from a year earlier, Civic sales in the United States plummeted 34 percent in February, compared with February 2004. And analysts say sales of the vehicle, Honda's second-most popular after the Accord, could continue to slide through the summer.
The Oracle Corporation raised its bid for Retek, a software maker, to $631 million late Thursday, leapfrogging the latest offer of $617 million from SAP and escalating the two-week-old bidding war.
Oracle, a maker of business and database software, increased its offer from $9 a share of Retek to $11.25 a share just a few hours after SAP, the global leader in the business software market, announced its ''best and final offer'' of $11 a share.
Martha Stewart has a chance -- albeit a slim one -- of getting her monitoring bracelet taken off sooner than expected.
Yesterday, the Federal Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit granted a request from Ms. Stewart to give her trial judge, Miriam Goldman Cedarbaum, the option to change her sentence. The court has given the same consideration to any defendant sentenced before Jan. 1 who has asked for it, said Megan Gaffney, a spokeswoman for the office of the United States attorney for the Southern District of New York.
A report released Friday by a panel of computer experts criticizes the federal government, saying that its financing of research on computer network security is inadequate and that it is making a mistake by focusing on classified research that is inaccessible to the commercial sector.
The report, commissioned by the Bush administration, calls for the government to spend $148 million annually on Internet security research through the National Science Foundation, over the current $58 million. It also urges more research spending by the Pentagon's Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency, or Darpa, and by the Department of Homeland Security.
A landmark agreement by former WorldCom directors to pay millions of their own money to settle with investors was revived yesterday about six weeks after it was scuttled by objections from other defendants in the case.
Under the terms of the settlement, which was reached early yesterday evening, 11 former WorldCom directors will pay $20 million out of their own pockets to settle with Alan G. Hevesi, comptroller of New York and trustee of the state's Common Retirement Fund. Mr. Hevesi is lead plaintiff in the civil suit representing hundreds of thousands of investors who held WorldCom stock and bonds in the years immediately before its bankruptcy filing in 2002.
To gauge the potential consumer impact of the consolidation sweeping the telephone industry, look no further than the silver-toned plastic phone gathering dust on the desk in Justin Martikovic's studio apartment.
Mr. Martikovic, 30, a junior architect who relies on a cellphone for his normal calling, says he never uses the desk phone -- but he pays $360 a year to keep it hooked up.
AS Federal Reserve policy makers meet this week, the market will receive two reports on inflation.
The first, out Tuesday, is the Producer Price Index for finished goods for February, which is expected to rise 0.3 percent, according to Bloomberg News.
WHAT a week.
Bernard J. Ebbers, founder of WorldCom, got to add felon to his already colorful curriculum vitae. Maurice R. Greenberg, dictator in chief at American International Group, the global insurance giant, was toppled after almost 40 years at his post. The Federal Reserve told Citigroup it could not make any major acquisitions until it cleaned up its compliance act. And General Motors laid a big, scary earnings egg.
In Enron's final weeks, years of incompetence, mismanagement and crime finally emerged into public view. But behind the scenes, a desperate -- and at times farcical -- effort was unfolding to avert what proved to be its inevitable destruction.
A new book, ''Conspiracy of Fools: A True Story'' by Kurt Eichenwald, provides a detailed look at Enron's rise and fall, including those crucial last days. Following is the second of two sets of excerpts from the book, published by the Broadway Books imprint of Random House. In the first excerpts, published last week, signs of significant trouble at Enron emerged, including questions about whether an off-the-books entity named Chewco had been accounted for properly. Public rumblings of problems had set Enron's stock price into a tailspin and put its survival in question.
Serious fans of ''Buffy the Vampire Slayer'' will find nothing new on an upcoming DVD release of the show's first two episodes from 1997. Priced at just $9.98, this TV starter set is being released tomorrow as a marketing gambit by 20th Century Fox Home Entertainment to attract new customers -- a kind of Buffy for beginners.
The company hopes consumers will become so enamored of the shows that they will purchase entire seasons on DVD at considerably higher prices.
Diany Castillo, a 54-year-old home health care aide who lives in Brooklyn, says she is grateful that the fragmented bits of her past -- her moves from one state to another, her marriages and her name changes -- can be found in the vast commercial databases that contain personal information on tens of millions of Americans.
Last October, a private investigator in Los Angeles used those digital bread crumbs to track down Ms. Castillo and send her a letter. Her estranged daughter, Diani Ramos, adrift for nearly a decade on the streets of southern California, was looking for her, the letter said.
In the fall of 1981, Paul Freiberger, a reporter for the weekly computer industry newspaper InfoWorld, was preparing to run a story that Apple Computer was engaged in two secret development projects. But first, he listened as company co-founder Steven P. Jobs shouted at him over the phone that revealing the code names of products would offer a crucial advantage to the computer maker's Japanese competitors.
In the end, the paper got its scoop -- Apple's new projects were called the Lisa and the Macintosh -- and the company still managed to handily trounce its competitors.
Did Sumner M. Redstone, the chairman of Viacom, wait too long to break his media conglomerate in two?
To hear Viacom executives tell it, investors these days are flocking to media companies built on a carefully defined strategy, not media giants with a jumble of sundry businesses.
GAS MONEY -- For weeks, airlines have been essentially asking passengers to chip in for gas by raising fares about $10 each way. Staggered by sharply rising fuel costs, the major airlines have managed to raise fares twice in the last month. And they are trying again. But it was not clear last night whether the latest attempt to add $10 to fares, begun last week by Continental Airlines and matched over the weekend by its competitors, was going to collapse. After Delta Air Lines retreated yesterday morning from the latest fare increase, Continental also abandoned it, according to The Associated Press. Competitors were assessing their positions last night. Still, with oil prices expected to remain at record levels, industry experts predict that fares will keep rising. ''Some leisure fares are now $50 more round-trip than they were Feb. 1,'' said Terry Trippler, an online air-fare analyst. ''I don't think this is the end of it. I think we're going to see more fare increases.''
FAST-GROWTH AIRPORTS -- The five airports where traffic will grow the most by 2010, and the reasons, according to the Boyd Group's latest forecast, are Sarasota-Bradenton, Fla. (34 percent growth, largely because of the entry of AirTran); Boston (32.7 percent, JetBlue expansion); Fort Myers, Fla. (27.6 percent, strong regional population growth); Phoenix (24 percent, strong regional population growth, assuming adequate water supply continues); and Atlanta (24 percent, increased competition with Delta Air Lines by other carriers moving in).
Medicis Pharmaceutical, which makes prescription treatments for people who cannot stand their wrinkles, has agreed to acquire Inamed, a rival better known as the market leader in breast implants for women. The deal, for stock and cash, is valued at $2.8 billion.
The two companies told analysts in a conference call yesterday that they expected the deal to create an ''aesthetics powerhouse'' able to meet expanding demand for products to preserve a youthful appearance.
It's been four years now. Most of you have been very good soldiers, booking the cheapest connecting flight even when it meant the trip took you five hours longer than a slightly more expensive nonstop, and going downscale on hotels, even when it meant serious inconvenience.
Now business travel has rebounded almost to the level of 2000, its peak. Here and there, the screws on spending are being loosened -- though not without a battle, as corporate travel departments remain under tight pressure to keep costs down.
Two top executives at American International Group, the insurance company, were dismissed yesterday for refusing to cooperate with regulators in a widening investigation of the accounting for some insurance transactions.
The two executives -- Howard Smith, the chief financial officer, and Christian Milton, the vice president for reinsurance -- were both dismissed yesterday after invoking their Fifth Amendment rights against self-incrimination in dealing with regulators investigating a transaction between A.I.G. and General Re, a reinsurance unit owned by Berkshire Hathaway, people close to the investigation said last night.
The takeover fight for MCI took another twist yesterday when the chairmen of Qwest Communications and Verizon Communications both released letters stating their cases for being permitted to buy the troubled long-distance carrier.
Qwest's chairman, Richard C. Notebaert, sent a letter to MCI expressing his concern that his company's latest bid was being ignored. That came a few hours after Ivan G. Seidenberg, Verizon's chairman, made public a 10-page letter that dismissed Qwest's projected cost savings from an MCI purchase as ''modern fiction.''
The pharmaceutical makers Novartis and Schering said Monday they would delay seeking regulatory approval in the United States and Europe for their experimental colon-cancer drug PTK/ZK after mixed trial results.
The delay was a blow to Schering, which was relying on PTK/ZK to bolster its earnings, and has few drugs in development, analysts said. Schering's stock plunged 14.2 percent, to 50.06 euros, or $66.66, in response to the news. But the shares of Genentech and Roche Holding rallied, as their drug Avastin, which works in a similar way, will apparently remain unchallenged for a time.
Several automakers, among them Toyota, Ford Motor and BMW, are financing an advertising campaign aimed at politicians that asserts that automobiles are ''virtually emission-free.''
The campaign is part of an effort by a broad coalition of automakers to present their vehicles as environmentally benign at a time when the coalition is suing California to block a new regulation to curb global warming emissions and is continuing to lobby in Washington against tougher fuel economy regulations.
The National Basketball Association is expected to announced today that it has struck a series of licensing deals with five major publishers of video games, including Electronic Arts and Take-Two Interactive.
Together, the licensing deals are worth about $400 million over five to six years, according to people close to the deals. The deal with Electronic Arts, the biggest video game publisher in the United States, will account for roughly half of that total, these people said.
Goldman Sachs said yesterday that it was strengthening its investment in wind energy with the acquisition of Zilkha Renewable Energy, one of the nation's largest developers of wind projects. The deal comes after several similar transactions since the start of the year, signaling robust commercial interest in wind-powered electricity generation.
The companies did not disclose the price or terms of the acquisition, but the deal would give Goldman Sachs control of almost 4,000 megawatts of wind-energy projects under development in 12 states.
China has been shaken by a series of large-scale bank robberies in recent years, but they are not the Bonnie-and-Clyde type.
These are inside jobs: top executives, branch managers, loan officers and thousands of everyday employees have been running off with billions in customers' money.
Three of the nation's biggest newspaper publishers, the Gannett Company, Knight-Ridder Inc. and the Tribune Company, are joining forces to buy three-fourths of Topix.net, a Web site that monitors more than 10,000 online news sources.
Each publisher will own 25 percent of the company. Topix.net, based in Palo Alto, Calif., will retain the rest and continue to run the site. The cost of the acquisition, which is scheduled to be announced today, was not disclosed.
The SCi Entertainment Group, a British video game maker, made a surprise £76.1 million ($144.5 million) bid on Tuesday for a rival company, Eidos, a move that could ignite a takeover battle for Eidos.
SCi's offer came about 13 hours after Elevation Partners, a private equity firm that counts the singer Bono among its managers, said it would pay £74 million ($139 million) for Eidos.
Deutsche Lufthansa said Tuesday that it had won approval for a staggered takeover of Swiss International Airlines, the successor to the defunct Swissair, setting a floating price for the embattled carrier.
Lufthansa's chief executive, Wolfgang Mayrhuber, and the head of Swiss International Airlines, Christoph Franz, signed an agreement in Zurich to push ahead with the takeover. The deal could be worth as much as 310 million euros ($405 million), and the 15 percent of free-floating stock could be valued up to 45 million euros ($58.8 million).
THE New York office of Saatchi & Saatchi, scrambling to recover from the loss of 17 employees who worked for an important client, General Mills, has lured a top creative executive from a competitor to help rebuild the team.
Ann Hayden, who has been the executive creative director for the last five years at the New York office of Young & Rubicam, part of the Young & Rubicam Brands division of the WPP Group, is leaving to join Saatchi New York as the worldwide creative director for the General Mills account.
WHEN an initial public offering is hot, a sure-fire way to make money is to buy shares at the offering price and sell them immediately -- a practice known as flipping.
A decade ago, that practice worried Wall Street underwriters, who felt that it damaged a company by not allocating shares to long-term investors who really believed in the company's promise.
Nature spent millennia carving the jagged limestone mountains of Guangxi Province into the fanciful forest of stand-alone peaks so prized by ancient painters and modern tourists.
Ren Ping and his crew of a few dozen migrant workers have been at their jobs only a few months, but the elevated superhighway they are building has already burrowed a path through the prehistoric crags. ''We'll go around this one, but we will have to slice through that one over there,'' Mr. Ren said over the roar of dump trucks pouring cement. ''Drivers on this road will have the most beautiful view in all China.''
Regulators are examining whether the American International Group has in recent years burnished its results by striking deals with offshore insurers that appear to be independent companies but that may in fact be affiliates of A.I.G. If these companies are indeed A.I.G.'s affiliates, the transactions between them may not involve a true transfer of risk and may run afoul of insurance accounting rules.
The companies drawing scrutiny are Richmond Insurance and Union Excess Reinsurance, reinsurers that, according to regulatory filings, do business solely with A.I.G. Both are registered in Barbados, an offshore tax haven that is loosely regulated. Another offshore insurer that counts A.I.G. as its only customer is Pillar Insurance, also of Barbados.
In a push to recruit older workers, Home Depot, the hardware chain, now offers ''snowbird specials'' -- winter work in Florida and summers in Maine.
Borders bookstores lure retired teachers to sales jobs with discounts and the promise of reading and discussion groups. Pitney Bowes, the business services company, pays tuition for courses in computer programming as well as spare-time skills like golf and flower arranging.
The struggling Jaguar Cars division of Ford Motor yesterday named the London and New York offices of Euro RSCG/Fuel, part of the Euro RSCG Worldwide division of Havas, the global creative agency of record on its account.
Billings on the assignment, which had been handled for four years by the Irvine, Calif., and London offices of Young & Rubicam, part of the Young & Rubicam Brands division of the WPP Group, were estimated at more than $100 million.
''Wall Street Week,'' which became one of the most-watched programs on public television over 35 years, has been canceled. Maryland Public Television, the program's producer, and PBS, which distributes it to member stations, plan to announce today that the program will be broadcast for the last time on June 24.
The cancellation comes three years after the program's creator and longtime host, Louis Rukeyser, was removed as part of an effort to attract a bigger, younger audience.
Makers of generic drugs in India faced an uncertain new playing field on Wednesday after the approval of a bill that would bring India into line with international patent law -- over time.
The bill, which requires only the signature of President A.P.J. Abdul Kalam, will set an unspecified ''reasonable royalty'' on drugs that are patented. What precisely that will cost India's consumers and companies remains to be seen.
HBO and New Line Cinema said Wednesday that they would jointly acquire Newmarket Films, the independent film distributor that released ''The Passion of the Christ'' last year.
The newly restructured company, which has yet to be named, will be based in New York and distribute films made by HBO Films and New Line, which are both owned by Time Warner, executives for the two divisions said. The new company will also finance a new lineup of modestly budgeted independent films.
An investment firm run by a prominent Democratic fund-raiser is near a deal to take a minority stake in Pathmark, the Northeast supermarket chain, for about $200 million, people close to the deal said last night.
The investment by the Yucaipa Companies, a Los Angeles firm run by Ronald W. Burkle, would provide a needed cash infusion to Pathmark, which has been struggling with declining sales in some intensely competitive markets. The chain, based in Carteret, N.J., has more than 140 stores, most of them in New York and New Jersey.
The European Commission said Wednesday that it had rejected a set of restrictions that Microsoft wants to impose on a trustee who will be charged with policing last year's antitrust ruling against the company.
''Microsoft wished to have a veto on what issues the monitoring trustee could examine,'' said Jonathan Todd, a commission spokesman. He added that the request was ''unacceptable'' because it would undermine the role of the trustee, who has yet to be named.
EARLIER this month, Marriott International unveiled new designs for the rooms in its various hotel chains. These are not routine updates to replace worn-out furniture or carpets. They represent a significant shift from the cookie-cutter standardization that built Marriott into one of the world's largest hotel companies, to a new emphasis on aesthetics and personalization.
''It's a makeover,'' said a company spokesman, John Wolf.
As regulators press forward in their investigation of whether American International Group used transactions to improperly dress up its financial position, its directors will meet today on a number of important issues confronting the company.
Directors plan to discuss the March 31 deadline for the company to file its annual report with the Securities and Exchange Commission and the possibility of a restatement because of an internal review of numerous transactions, people close to the company said last night.
In recent years, most companies were forced to absorb the higher costs of basic expenses like employee health care, raw materials and energy, focusing instead on squeezing more efficiencies from their workers and machines.
But now, from airlines to manufacturers of advanced plastics, many businesses are overcoming their fears of losing customers and are starting to pass on cost increases.
In an effort to steady Russia's business climate, President Vladimir V. Putin said Thursday that he favored a change in the law that would effectively end investigations into the privatizations of the 1990's.
Mr. Putin said he would support a law that would reduce the inquiries to 3 years from the current 10 years -- potentially clearing dozens of so-called oligarchs who gained their wealth in questionable asset sales. The law would end the possibility of inquiries into privatizations in the mid-1990's to late 1990's in oil, metals, cars and utilities.
An affiliate of Softbank of Japan emerged as the biggest shareholder in the Fuji Television Network on Thursday in a move apparently intended to fend off a possible takeover of Fuji by Livedoor, the Internet start-up.
The Softbank Investment Corporation acquired 14.67 percent of the voting rights in Fuji Television, Japan's largest private television network, by borrowing the shares from the Nippon Broadcasting System, a Fuji affiliate, the companies said in a statement Thursday.
A French appeals court on Thursday upheld the conviction of George Soros, the former fund manager, on insider trading charges, rejecting his argument that his investment in a French bank in 1988 was not based on confidential information.
Mr. Soros, 74, now retired from money management but active as a philanthropist and author, was ordered to pay a fine of 2.2 million euros, or $2.9 million, representing the money that funds he managed made from the investment in Société Générale. He said the purchase was part of a strategy to invest in a group of companies that had been privatized by the French government.
Real estate-crazed Americans have started behaving in ways that eerily recall the stock market obsession of the late 1990's.
In Naples, Fla., some houses have been bought twice in a single day, an early-21st-century version of day trading. Buying stocks on margin has morphed into buying homes with no money down. The over-the-top parties of Internet start-ups have been replaced by flashy gatherings where developers pitch condos to eager buyers.
Consumer prices in Japan fell 0.4 percent in February from a year earlier, their steepest drop since June 2003 and the latest sign that the country remains mired in a nearly seven-year battle with deflation.
Steep declines in telephone rates and a fall in the price of rice drove overall prices lower in February, according to Japan's statistics bureau. Japanese consumer prices have been flat or have fallen every month but one since April 1998, an unprecedented streak that has sapped some of the country's economic strength.
The Italian government will sell a 5.2 billion euro stake ($6.7 billion) in Enel, the biggest utility here, to reduce the country's staggering debt.
The finance ministry said late Thursday that it would lower its stake in Enel to about 20 percent from a 31.5 percent stake by selling shares to Italian and foreign investment funds, as well as individual investors, by the end of September.
Larry Lyons, who is 23, vividly remembers the Saturday mornings when his mother would write checks to pay the family's bills, dispatching him to the landlord with one for the rent. When he was in sixth grade, she taught him to balance a checkbook.
What he has more trouble remembering is the last time he wrote a check himself.
On a Friday morning not long ago, a surgical team at the New York Hospital for Joint Diseases sliced, drilled, probed, sawed and hammered its way through a two-hour operation to replace the left knee of Joseph Madden, a retired policeman, with a metal and plastic substitute.
Hovering in the background, when he was not scurrying off to two neighboring operating rooms to peek in on knee operations there, was Dan Driesse, a sales representative for the Stryker Corporation. Stryker, based in Kalamazoo, Mich., manufactured all three artificial knees being implanted that morning.
Thomas M. Coughlin, who recently retired as vice chairman of Wal-Mart Stores, resigned from the company's board yesterday after the company raised questions about his knowledge of fraudulent expense reports and invoices.
Wal-Mart said it asked Mr. Coughlin to resign after a disagreement over the results of its investigation into the possible misappropriation of $100,000 to $500,000 in corporate funds. The company is looking into employee reimbursements that were based on false expense reports, as well as the unauthorized use of ''corporate-owned gift cards,'' Wal-Mart said in a statement filed late yesterday with securities regulators.
Blockbuster Inc., the video rental giant, dropped its bid yesterday to acquire the Hollywood Entertainment Corporation, the second-largest video rental chain, citing the likelihood that the Federal Trade Commission would reject the deal on antitrust grounds.
The decision by Blockbuster not to renew its nearly $1 billion offer, which expired at midnight Thursday, clears the way for the No.3 rental company, Movie Gallery Inc. to complete its $850 million acquisition of Hollywood Entertainment. That merger has already received a regulatory nod.
WHEN Cynthia Letterman, 56, a retired aerospace engineer, opens her home to visits from her 4 children and 14 grandchildren, it could become a zoo -- if it weren't one already. Among the inhabitants are coatimundis, kinkajous, fennec foxes, sugar gliders, ring-tailed lemurs, marmoset monkeys, eclectus and sun conure parrots, as well as a prairie dog named Fido.
''They're my babies,'' says Ms. Letterman, who lives in Bay City, Tex., and who owned just a couple of dogs while rearing her first family. ''I always wanted something different when I retired.''
IF any of Rodney Eddins's accounting clients want his undivided attention at work first thing in the morning, they should shun e-mail or his telephone answering machine. Instead, they should send him a fax.
''The first thing I look at when I arrive is the incoming tray of my fax machine,'' said Mr. Eddins, a certified public accountant in Orlando, Fla., who has had his own practice for a decade. ''If there's paper there, I feel like I have to look at it.'' Only after he sorts through the morning's faxes -- though most on a recent day were ads like one for a workplace deodorizing service -- does Mr. Eddins log on to his computer and listen to his phone messages.
ECONOMISTS, strategists, money managers and individual investors are always worried about being fooled by monthly jobs reports.
Whether the forecasts are way too high or way too low, a miss usually means that stocks and bonds do the opposite of what was expected -- and that means a lot of people lose money or an opportunity to make money.
I WAS an extremely shy, awkward kid. I'm 5-foot-10, and I've had the feeling of being 5-foot-10 since I was 10 years old. It wasn't until I got to college that I developed a lot of self-confidence. I went to an obscure but wonderful small college, Lynchburg College in Virginia, much to my parents' chagrin. My mother had gone to Purdue, my dad to Carnegie Mellon. They wanted me to go to a school with a big name. But I had a lot of support at college.
I have worked since I was 15, so early on I had a sense of how to support myself. My parents had rough times financially. I was the oldest of three girls. We weren't poor, but we went without the nicest clothes; we didn't go on elaborate vacations or buy brand-new cars. I thought I'd really made it when I got to college and was able to buy Pepperidge Farm instead of day-old bread.
LAZINESS is a curse. It is as bad as a disability. In fact, it is a disability. I tell this to my son constantly, but I have to also say it to myself.
Like too many other people, I am often lazy when it comes to my investing -- even though I think about investing a great deal and have great hopes for someday living off my capital and swimming lazily back and forth in my pool in Rancho Mirage. But laziness works against me, as it does against all lazy investors.
IT seemed like an ordinary evening at Crobar, the trendy Manhattan nightclub. Two weeks ago, as Counting Crows performed on stage, young women dressed in expensive jeans pushed toward the front with their khaki-clad, mostly older boyfriends. Few, however, were regulars. On this night, the very rich and the merely rich intermingled on the club's two floors -- V.I.P.'s upstairs ($1,000 a ticket) and the rest down below ($250).
Most of the 1,250 people gathered for the event, the Robin Hood Foundation charity ball, were part of the city's unlikely new ''it'' crowd. Richer than Wall Street rich and more willing to take risks than their traditional money management peers, they are the managers behind the staggering growth in hedge funds, those private, lightly regulated investment vehicles aimed at the ultrawealthy, the run-of-the-mill wealthy and, increasingly, the not-so wealthy.
If ever a place labored under a set of stereotypes, it is Africa.
Whether they perceive it as a land of barbarous political extremes or as a stunning setting for tracking wildlife, Americans have long tended to reduce the vast continent to a list of clichés.
HAS the technology industry  a big and undeniably important slice of the economy -- become a business whose best days are behind it?
In other words, is Silicon Valley turning into Detroit?
Luxtera, a small start-up based on technology pioneered at the California Institute of Technology, plans to announce today a new class of silicon chips that blur the line between electronic computing and optical communications.
The chips, which contain both traditional electronic circuits and ultrathin conduits for laser light, herald the potential to blend the low-cost manufacturing prowess of the semiconductor world with the ultrahigh-speed potential of laser optical networking.
Let's dish...
So LIZ SMITH was having dinner with NICOLE KIDMAN at New York's Four Seasons and it seems the actress really likes to pig out.
''Welcome back,'' says a man who appears to be the host of a public-television pledge drive. ''This program was made possible by a grant from Chipotle Mexican Grill.'' Behind the host, more than a dozen volunteers tend telephones beneath a sign that reads ''Pledge Drive.''
But as the host talks, the ringing of unanswered phones drowns him out. The volunteers can't answer because they are all eating burritos.
AS branded entertainment becomes an increasingly popular marketing strategy, advertisers and agencies are pondering how to handle problems that could potentially slow what, until now, has been robust growth.
Branded entertainment involves embedding advertising inside the content of television and radio programs and movies by placing products in important scenes or making brands intrinsic elements of plot lines.
GoDaddy.com, the Web site registrar that gained national attention with a controversial commercial during the Super Bowl last month, said yesterday that it would not extend its contract with the agency that created the commercial, the Ad Store in New York, after the contract expires on Thursday.
While the work for GoDaddy.com was outstanding, said Bob Parsons, president of the GoDaddy Group in Scottsdale, Ariz., ''We're moving forward with a much simpler ad that's done for a more targeted audience.'' He confirmed a report about the decision not to renew the contract that appeared this week in Adweek.
DIVERGING FORTUNES -- Major airlines lost nearly one-third of their full-time work force in the last four years, while jobs at low-cost carriers rebounded, according to data released yesterday by the Transportation Department. The number of people employed full time by network carriers fell 31 percent in January, to 273,305, from the month in 2001, the Bureau of Transportation Statistics at the department said. During the same period, the number of full-time workers at budget carriers rose 15 percent, to 68,089.
HIRING A PRIVATE JET -- CitationShares, a fractional-share jet provider, said yesterday that its Vector JetCard service now offers flight time in increments of 20 hours, five hours less than the industry's standard minimum. With jet cards, customers buy flight time on corporate jets but avoid the complications of full or fractional ownership. The new program ''reduces the barriers to entry'' for those who want to fly corporate jets, ''with less commitment in terms of both flight time and expense,'' said CitationShares, which is jointly owned by the Cessna Aircraft Company unit of Textron and TAG Aviation. The cheapest 20-hour Vector JetCard is $75,995 for 20 hours' time on a five-passenger, 1,400-mile-range Citation CJ1. The most expensive is $119,995 for 20 hours on an eight-passenger, 2,100-mile-range Citation Excel, a spokeswoman said. A competitor, the industry-leading jet-card provider, Marquis Jet, offers 25-hour cards that start at $109,900 for the seven-passenger, 2,000-mile-range Citation Ultra and go to $339,900 for the 14-passenger Gulfstream V, which has a range of about 6,000 miles. At the top of the scale, meanwhile, Marquis Jet announced last week a new service, M Club, that will allow up to 100 new members to pay $125,000 toward flight time in the top-end Boeing Business Jet, which has 1,000 square feet of cabin space, including two bedrooms and two and a half bathrooms. That jet costs $15,696 an hour, plus tax, a Marquis spokesman said.
Krispy Kreme Doughnuts, which has experienced a plunge in sales, has tentatively arranged a $225 million loan to refinance bank debt that was frozen after the company ran into financial problems, a person briefed on the negotiations said yesterday.
The person said that the deal was likely to be disclosed later in the week and that the amount of the loan might be changed before details were completed. The lenders are to be Credit Suisse First Boston and Silver Point Finance, a subsidiary of Silver Point Capital, a hedge fund based in Greenwich, Conn.
On Palm Sunday, Kay Severs attended an Easter party, complete with an egg hunt and a visit from the Easter Bunny. She did not celebrate with relatives and friends, however, but with a mismatched group of business executives, athletes, nurses and other adults from all parts of the United States.
Ms. Severs, a traveling nurse from Bradenton, Fla., is a long-term guest at the Oakwood Marina Del Rey, an extended-stay hotel that is within walking distance of Venice Beach, Calif. ''It beats hanging out alone in your room,'' she said about the party. Since she checked into the property on Jan. 20 to work a stint in the emergency room of a local hospital, she has attended a number of such events, mingling with other guests at hotel-sponsored events ranging from bingo parties to Oscar night celebrations to Wednesday evening cooking classes.
Two senior investment bankers at Bank of America were summoned to a meeting this month where their boss, visibly uncomfortable and flanked by bank lawyers, read them a statement. They were both dismissed and asked to leave the building immediately. The decision was final.
Stunned, the bankers asked if they had broken any regulations. No, they were told. Nor had they traded on any inside information. Within the hour, they had turned in their BlackBerrys and laptops and were on their way home to the suburbs.
Since taking office two years ago, President Luiz Inácio Lula da Silva has turned Brazil into a tropical outpost of the free software movement.
Looking to save millions of dollars in royalties and licensing fees, Mr. da Silva has instructed government ministries and state-run companies to gradually switch from costly operating systems made by Microsoft and others to free operating systems, like Linux. On Mr. da Silva's watch, Brazil has also become the first country to require any company or research institute that receives government financing to develop software to license it as open-source, meaning the underlying software code must be free to all.
Midway between Okinawa and China, the Ramform Victory, a Norwegian seismic ship, is performing routine survey work, trawling with long seismic cables and using sound waves to create three-dimensional images of oil and gas deposits. But nothing is routine when Japan commissions a survey of what is hidden below the contested waters of the East China Sea.
Chinese coast guard ships treat the surveyors as spies, radioing warnings to leave and shadowing the ship for days on end. On one occasion, the Chinese ships nearly collided with the vessel. Japan's trade minister, flying in a Japan coast guard plane, conducted an ostentatious survey, circling over the bright yellow gas production platform that China is building a mile west of waters claimed by Japan.
Morgan Stanley, under pressure from investors and an impatient board to revive its lagging stock price, announced last night that two senior executives had been promoted to co-presidents, reporting to the chief executive, Philip J. Purcell.
The status of Stephan F. Newhouse, 58, who was president, remained unclear last night.
The Securities and Exchange Commission yesterday gave companies wide latitude in calculating the expense to be recorded for stock options issued to executives and other employees. The move may enable companies to keep reported costs low as they adapt to an accounting rule that requires options costs to be treated like any other expense.
''They are allowing a lot of flexibility in the accounting,'' said Michael A. Moran, an accounting analyst at Goldman, Sachs. But, he added, the S.E.C. also made it clear that it expected companies to disclose details about what they did, to make it possible for investors to evaluate the accounting.
Framed on the east by Eero Saarinen's forward-looking Gateway Arch and on the west by the majestic Romanesque-style Union Station, downtown St. Louis might be the most studied 2.91 square miles in the nation. At least a dozen reports have been commissioned in recent years to dissect its shortcomings and point the way to a brighter future.
Invariably, those efforts delivered the same bad news: despite its status as Missouri's largest office center and the hub for three successful professional sports teams, downtown was in dire straits. Last year, a California consultant pronounced the downtown ''one of the most lifeless and uninteresting'' in America.
Northwest Airlines said yesterday that it was increasing the amount it wanted in labor concessions to $1.1 billion a year and that it would seek to freeze employee pension plans.
The moves were the latest sign of the toll that record fuel prices are taking on the airline industry.
The New York State Insurance Department announced yesterday that it would require the chief executives of insurance companies it regulates to certify, under oath, that certain insurance transactions were conducted for legitimate economic reasons and not as a way to manipulate financial reporting results.
The directive, issued as the insurance industry is under scrutiny by federal and state regulators, applies to finite reinsurance. Insurance companies buy reinsurance to offload some of their risk. Finite reinsurance is used to try to manage expensive claims over time.
Individual taxpayers failed to pay up to $353 billion in taxes in 2001, according to a study released yesterday by the Internal Revenue Service.
The study examined the so-called tax gap, the difference between the amount of taxes owed by individual taxpayers and the amount collected. It was the agency's first large study on the issue since 1988.
Philip F. Murtaugh, the General Motors executive who turned the company's operations in China into one of G.M.'s few successes in recent years, has unexpectedly resigned from the automaker, citing personal reasons, people with knowledge of his decision said on Wednesday.
G.M. officials declined to comment on Mr. Murtaugh's plans. But his departure coincides with growing competitiveness and reduced profitability for all automakers in the Chinese market, as well as an effort by G.M. executives in Detroit to unite the company's global operations.
Windows Media Center PC's have taken a stab at combining digital movies, music, television and computing on the desktop, but now an all-in-one multimedia system aims to bring it all to your living room wall.
The Tek Panel 460 is a Windows XP computer that also happens to have a 125-channel TV tuner, 512 megabytes of memory, an 80-gigabyte hard drive, CD and DVD recorders and a variety of memory card slots, all tucked behind a 46-inch liquid-crystal display screen.
Larry Azlin, a software engineer in El Cerrito, Calif., considers himself one of the lucky ones. His aging clamshell cellphone, a Motorola V60, seems to work just fine. But once he gives it some thought, it occurs to him that he does have a few complaints.
''The buttons on the sides are a bit annoying,'' he said. They seem to do different things when the phone is open and when it is closed.
When the iPod Photo was released last year, it had one shortcoming: it could not display photos loaded directly from a camera.
Now Apple offers a $29 accessory that allows photos to be displayed on the iPod Photo without a trip through a computer. The iPod Camera Connector plugs into the data slot on the bottom of the iPod and links to many digital cameras and memory card readers through a U.S.B. cable. (A list of compatible cameras can be found by clicking on the camera connector link at www.apple.com/ipodphoto/accessories.html.)
Several large orthopedics manufacturers said yesterday that they had received subpoenas from the Justice Department, seeking information about the industry's relationships with surgeons who implant artificial knees and hips.
Stryker, a manufacturer based in Kalamazoo, Mich., said that it had received a request on Monday for documents that covered any agreement since January 2002 that called for it to pay knee and hip surgeons for consulting, services or other work. The request also covered arrangements with medical students in orthopedic training who were using or considering using Stryker's products to replace or reconstruct hips and knees.
The Fox television executive who is taking over as president of the Paramount Pictures unit of Viacom said Wednesday that she would approach her job with humility because of her inexperience with feature films.
Gail Berman, who was named by Paramount's new chairman, Brad Grey, said that she would leave the Fox Broadcasting Company, where she has served as entertainment president since May 2000, after a transition period of about six weeks. She is being succeeded at Fox by Peter Liguori of the FX cable channel.
''IN extraordinary circumstances like this,'' President Bush said of the Terri Schiavo predicament, ''it is wisest to always err on the side of life.''
Uwe E. Reinhardt, a Princeton University health economist, said that from his perspective President Bush was not quite right: the president should have said ''err on the side of life years.''
A new study and documents from a recent lawsuit against the Ford Motor Company raise fresh questions about the safety of roofs on Ford Explorers.
The consumer advocacy group Public Citizen released a study on Wednesday that accuses Ford of ignoring evidence that stronger roofs would lead to fewer injuries.
Saks Inc., the department store company, has put its regional stores up for sale and is considering selling its crown jewel, the Saks Fifth Avenue chain, executives close to the company said yesterday.
The board of Saks has hired the investment bank Goldman Sachs and Citigroup to ''explore strategic alternatives'' for its properties, the executives said last night.
EBay said yesterday that it had selected BBDO Worldwide in New York, part of the Omnicom Group, to replace another Omnicom agency, Goodby, Silverstein & Partners in San Francisco, which had worked for eBay since 1999. EBay unexpectedly dismissed Goodby, Silverstein late Tuesday.
EBay spent an estimated $80 million last year on advertising in major media, according to TNS Media Intelligence.
The president of Intel, Paul S. Otellini, warned a federal panel addressing tax issues that because of high tax rates in the United States, his company may build its next $3 billion semiconductor factory overseas.
Mr. Otellini, who will become Intel's chief executive in May, testified Thursday at a hearing of the President's Advisory Panel on Federal Tax Reform that over the 10-year life of a modern chip factory, the company would save $1 billion by placing the factory in Asia or Europe rather than in the United States. He said Intel, the world's largest chip maker, would make its decision this year.
The Food and Drug Administration released an internal report late Wednesday that was critical of its oversight of medical device makers.
The report is based on a review that took place nearly two years ago and concluded that the agency had little idea whether device manufacturers were fulfilling their obligations to conduct studies on the safety of products once they were on the market.
For the stock market, the first quarter was not even a fair fight.
With the price of crude oil rising to a record $56.72 a barrel, longer-term interest rates jumping more than half a percentage point and Federal Reserve policy makers worrying out loud about inflationary pressures, what else could have been expected?
HAPPY days are here again for investment bankers.
Or at least they are back for bankers not on the wrong side of the latest power struggle within the dysfunctional family known as Morgan Stanley.
The European Union and Canada said Thursday that they would impose trade sanctions on a variety of American goods in retaliation for a tax system that compensates American manufacturers deemed to have been hurt by foreign goods sold below cost.
Beginning May 1, the European Commission and Canada will raise import duties 15 percent on a range of American products. In Europe, pocket diaries, women's trousers and frozen sweet corn are among the $28 million in exports that will be taxed more heavily. Canada will impose the duty on some $11.5 million in American exports of cigarettes, pigs, oysters and specialty fish.
Regulators at Ireland's fledgling financial watchdog are facing the test of a lifetime as the trail of a suspect reinsurance transaction brings investigators to Dublin.
The agency, which is cooperating with Eliot Spitzer, the New York State attorney general, in his inquiry into American International Group and General Re, a unit of Berkshire Hathaway, is still best known here for publishing reports on consumer-friendly products like home insurance. The typical warning tends to be: shop around.
Signaling its refusal to back down from a two-month bidding war, Qwest Communications International has once again raised its offer for MCI.
The fresh offer of $8.9 billion made yesterday comes two days after MCI's board tried to end the contest by accepting a $7.6 billion bid from Verizon Communications. Qwest's new bid would give MCI shareholders $27.50 a share, with $13.50 in cash and the rest in stock.
Japanese corporate leaders are much less optimistic about business prospects than they were three months ago as they worry about fading export growth, a widely followed Bank of Japan survey showed Friday.
The surprisingly sharp deterioration in the central bank's quarterly Tankan report of business sentiment suggests that it is taking longer than expected for Japan, the world's second-largest economy, to emerge from a slowdown that began last year.
MCI said yesterday that it would reopen merger talks with Qwest Communications International, which bid $8.9 billion for the company on Thursday.
MCI's board agreed this week to be bought by Verizon Communications for $7.6 billion, and has started making the necessary filings with regulators. But Qwest continues to lobby for its higher bid, which it has revised three times and which is now 19 percent higher than Verizon's.
Ron Gremban and Felix Kramer have modified a Toyota Prius so it can be plugged into a wall outlet.
This does not make Toyota happy. The company has spent millions of dollars persuading people that hybrid electric cars like the Prius never need to be plugged in and work just like normal cars. So has Honda, which even ran a commercial that showed a guy wandering around his Civic hybrid fruitlessly searching for a plug.
MAYBE Sally Field should head a Fortune 500 company.
When she received her second Academy Award in five years in 1985 -- for her role in ''Places in the Heart,'' after winning for ''Norma Rae'' in 1980 -- Ms. Field famously observed in her acceptance speech: ''You like me, right now, you like me!''
PRESSED by shareholder advocates and securities regulators, companies are starting to be more forthcoming about the corporate jets, company cars and other perquisites they give their executives on top of their salaries, bonuses and stock awards. But judging by the latest batch of proxy statements, many companies have not reined in executives' regal lifestyles.
The amounts of money spent on executive perks -- as tallied in the catch-all category labeled ''other compensation'' -- vary widely, and they rise and fall inexplicably. Most often, the cash goes to sweeten corporate officers' health care benefits and retirement accounts. But there are other popular perks that stretch beyond the office, like the annual bill for the chief executive's membership in some exclusive club.
HOW many leveraged buyout firms does it take to do a deal?
Evidently, quite a few. Last week, seven of the nation's most prominent private equity firms crowded into one deal, teaming up to buy SunGard Data Systems for $11.3 billion. It was the largest leveraged buyout since Kohlberg Kravis Roberts & Company bought RJR Nabisco in 1989 for $25 billion.
TAX reform, like a second marriage, is the triumph of hope over experience. The United States has just gone through the most sweeping tax cuts since the 1980's, but hardly anybody is satisfied. President Bush contends that we need still-lower taxes in order to prosper. Alan Greenspan, the Federal Reserve chairman, is suggesting a radical shift to a consumption tax. And the Republican Party has taken aim at the entire tax system.
At the heart of such antitax sentiment is this belief: Taxes are bad for the economy. And who would disagree, especially as April 15 nears?
THE founder and first C.E.O. of Scholastic was my father, Robbie. He'd developed a love of magazines at Dartmouth. When he graduated, he noticed that post-World War I America had a dramatic increase in high school enrollment, so he said, ''This might be where I can do a magazine.''
In those days, magazines were like the Internet today -- a new, national means of communication. After a couple of false starts he created a national magazine of contemporary issues and English literature for high school kids. He spent years and years going to English teachers' conventions and got to where he had six or seven magazines for different interests. Then he started a book club for bringing paperbacks into the schools.
THE American International Group is no Enron. Of that we can be sure. A.I.G., after all, is a real company with global operations, generating genuine profits from a variety of financial enterprises. As companies go, Enron was all smoke and mirrors; A.I.G. is substance.
Moreover, until five minutes ago, A.I.G. was run by Maurice R. Greenberg, a brilliant man who was both visionary and micromanager, a far cry from the know-nothing that Ken Lay, Enron's former chief executive, claims to be, now that his trial looms.
WHEN Vance D. Coffman retired as chief executive of Lockheed Martin last August, the company wanted to show a little gratitude. So the board endowed a $1.5 million professorship at Iowa State University, Mr. Coffman's alma mater, to honor his steady leadership over 37 years. It also agreed to foot the bill for various expenses, like his country club membership and use of company aircraft, until he steps down as chairman this month at the age of 61.
Those perks, however, are pocket change compared with the pension that Lockheed, the military contractor, bestowed upon Mr. Coffman a few weeks ago: a $31.5 million lump-sum payment.
THIS year's Forbes list of the world's billionaires is out, and as usual, the news is bad. You didn't make it. Neither did I.
But you may have imagined that you did. You may have fantasized about what it would be like to have multiple homes, to cruise around on your yacht and spend time counting your cash. If you are in business, you may even derive some tepid comfort from knowing that the club isn't closed. Indeed, the overall number of billionaires found by Forbes was 691 this time around, up from 587 the previous year. In other words, there's hope.
Perhaps Jamie Reidy was naïve, but he said it barely occurred to him that Eli Lilly & Company would object to his new book, ''Hard Sell: The Evolution of a Viagra Salesman,'' a humorous take on his life as a Pfizer Inc. sales representative from 1995 to 2000. ''Hard Sell'' has nothing to do with his more recent job as a sales trainer for Lilly.
But Mr. Reidy had a big surprise coming. Lilly was not amused. Last Monday, two weeks after ''Hard Sell'' hit bookstore shelves, the company gave Mr. Reidy the boot. A spokesman at Lilly's headquarters in Indianapolis, Philip C. Belt, said the book describes behavior the company finds ''inappropriate'' and in violation of its policies.
AN Australian who opened a boutique creative agency in China and found fast success in Asia before expanding to Europe is now hoping to persuade Americans to buy more chocolate snacks from Mars.
The game of advertising geography being played by the Australian, Chris Clarke, and his agency, Nitro, is indicative of a trend that is rapidly remaking Madison Avenue. Giant marketers like Mars, Anheuser-Busch, Coca-Cola and Unilever are increasingly bypassing their giant agencies to award assignments to smaller, presumably nimbler, independent shops that specialize in nontraditional creative ideas.
Digeo, a company that designs software for set-top boxes used with cable television systems, will announce today that it has selected Samsung, the Korean electronics giant, to make its next generation of boxes.
The deal is an effort by the two companies to break into a market that has been tightly controlled by Scientific Atlanta and Motorola, which both make boxes and other equipment used in cable systems.
Two private equity firms, the Texas Pacific Group and Apax Partners, are expected to announce on Monday that they will acquire Telecom Italia's controlling stake in a Greek phone company for $1.4 billion, according to two executives involved in the negotiations.
The firms have been trying to acquire Telecom Italia's 80 percent stake in the company, TIM Hellas Telecommunications, since February. Just a few weeks ago, a deal looked uncertain after exclusive talks between Telecom Italia and the two buyers ended without an agreement. Apax and Texas Pacific are expected to split ownership of the TIM Hellas stake evenly, and increase the company's presence in Greece by investing in new products and marketing.
There was no other word for it. Adam Moss was just gushing.
''I love magazines,'' he was saying in his corner office in Midtown Manhattan last week. ''I love them. And when I read them, I get very excited. They are emotional things for me.''
Maurice R. Greenberg strolled through his executive apartment in Manhattan on Feb. 9, exuding ebullience. Surrounding him and his visitors were the trappings of wealth -- windows that beckoned with views of New York Harbor, Chinese antiques, the services of a butler and a maid -- acquired over his nearly four decades leading the American International Group, the global insurance giant.
And more success was coming: that day, A.I.G. announced robust earnings on eye-popping revenue of $100 billion.
Creative teams that helped produce some of the best-liked, most-discussed commercials in Super Bowl XXXIX in February have left their agencies for Goodby, Silverstein & Partners in San Francisco, part of the Omnicom Group.
One creative team is leaving the Los Angeles office of DDB Worldwide, also part of Omnicom, where it worked on humorous commercials for Ameriquest Mortgage suggesting that things are not always what they seem to be. The copywriter, Pat McKay, and the art director, Feh Tarty, will have the same titles at Goodby, Silverstein.
Nils Peyron was named executive vice president and global brand director for the Microsoft account at the San Francisco office of McCann Erickson Worldwide, part of the McCann Worldgroup division of the Interpublic Group of Companies. He succeeds Harry Corsham, executive vice president and director for client services for Microsoft, who is moving to Melbourne, Australia, as regional account director for global accounts in the Asia-Pacific region for McCann Erickson. Mr. Peyron had been executive vice president and chief marketing officer at Bath and Body Works, Columbus, Ohio, part of Limited Brands, and previously worked at Ogilvy & Mather Worldwide.
Matt Hofherr was named president and director for brand strategy at Swirl, San Francisco. As president, he succeeds Martin Lauber, who continues as creative director; brand strategy was handled by Mr. Lauber and Danny McNamara, who continues as partner and director for direct marketing. Mr. Hofherr was president, managing partner and director for brand strategy at the San Francisco office of Kirshenbaum Bond, part of the Kirshenbaum Bond & Partners division of MDC Partners. Kirshenbaum Bond will not fill Mr. Hofherr's post; as part of a revamping, the San Francisco office is reporting to Aaron Reitkopf, managing partner and president for New York.
The Bush administration, reacting to a flood of Chinese clothing imports since January, began a process on Monday to impose import quotas on shirts, trousers and underwear.
In an abrupt policy reversal, the Commerce Department said that it would begin an investigation into the need to re-impose trade quotas that were lifted just three months ago on a wide variety of Chinese apparel.
Verizon Communications yesterday signaled its unwillingness to raise its $7.6 billion offer for MCI and said it was prepared to walk away from its agreement to buy the company.
In what amounted to an ultimatum, Ivan G. Seidenberg, chief executive of Verizon, in a letter to MCI's board, said if the board decided that Qwest's $8.9 billion bid was ''superior,'' Verizon would scrap the current deal.
With its sales flat and its profits under pressure, Pfizer will announce plans to trim its spending at a meeting today with investors, drug industry analysts say.
But investors and analysts have given up their earlier hopes that Pfizer, the world's largest drug company, will announce broad cuts in its sales force or research spending, even though some of its biggest-selling drugs will soon face competition from low-priced generics. As a result, the meeting has generated little enthusiasm from investors, and Pfizer's shares closed yesterday near a five-year low.
With General Motors losing its once dominant grip on American car buyers, its chairman and chief executive, Rick Wagoner, took direct control of the company's North American operations on Monday in an effort to overcome a drought in profit and sales.
Mr. Wagoner, 52, reduced the authority of the two most senior North American executives, Robert A. Lutz and Gary Cowger, in a move analysts saw as a sign that his job depends on fixing the company's performance at home. Lucrative sales of pickup trucks and sport utility vehicles propped up G.M.'s performance in the late 1990's until competitors like Toyota and Nissan let loose a wave of their own trucks.
Alan Greenspan, chairman of the Federal Reserve, said on Tuesday that oil and natural gas markets were under the heaviest strain in a generation and suggested that prices might remain high for some time.
But Mr. Greenspan was optimistic about the long-run outlook for energy supplies, and he warned against efforts to ''distort'' or ''stifle'' prices set in global markets.
Unlike the United States, the European Union is not yet considering action to stem the surge in textile imports from China that followed the end of quotas last year, a European trade official said on Tuesday.
Instead, the European Commission, which takes the lead on international trade issues for all 25 countries in the union, will complete a set of guidelines on Wednesday to determine when and how to step in. The guidelines would set parameters, possibly on market share or unit volume, that could ultimately set off safeguards.
Allied Domecq said on Tuesday that it was in talks with Pernod Ricard of France and Fortune Brands of the United States about a buyout, a move that would revamp the $150-billion-a-year alcoholic beverage industry.
Together, Pernod and Fortune are working on a deal for Pernod to take control of Allied Domecq and Fortune Brands to provide some money for the takeover, executives involved in the negotiations said. In return, Fortune would receive some of Allied Domecq's brands, they said.
Do you cover the B string for a C major chord? A new electric guitar lets you know with a glance at the fret board, where a display of light-emitting diodes shows you where to place your fingers.
The $599 Fretlight FG-400 has 132 computer-controlled L.E.D.'s embedded in its fret board that display 3,000 chord variants, 500 arpeggios, notes and custom chords.
Michael Roberts, a restaurateur and chef whose playful and astonishingly successful marriages of preposterous ingredients helped forge the California culinary revolution of the 1980's, died on March 30 at his home in South Philadelphia, where he had lived for the last several years. He was 55.
The cause was complications of Kugelberg-Welander syndrome, a degenerative neuromuscular disorder, his brother, Clifford, said.
Trade negotiators on both sides of the Atlantic traded mostly barbs this week, as the dispute over aircraft subsidies turned caustic.
On Wednesday, Peter Mandelson, the European trade commissioner, accused Robert B. Zoellick, the former United States trade representative and now deputy secretary of state, of essentially taking instructions from Boeing, a party in the dispute.
Investigators have learned that two offshore insurers that appeared to have no affiliation with American International Group were secretly backed by the global insurance giant through complex agreements, according to people who were briefed on the matter.
An A.I.G. affiliate secretly guaranteed the investments that other companies made in the offshore insurers, effectively making those insurers' operations part of A.I.G., according to the people.
Until recently, Robert Beeney, a 64-year-old real estate consultant from San Francisco, lived in pain. But when he finally decided to do something about the discomfort, he spurned all the usual choices.
His doctors advised that he get his hip joint replaced, which his insurer would pay for, but after doing some research on the Internet, he decided to get a different procedure -- joint resurfacing -- not covered by his insurance. And instead of going to a nearby hospital, he chose to go to India and paid $6,600, a fraction of the $25,000 he would have paid at home for the surgery.
The Scholastic Corporation announced yesterday that Barbara A. Marcus, who built its children's book business into an industry powerhouse, was leaving and would be succeeded by Lisa Holton, the publisher of the children's books division at the Walt Disney Company.
But a spokesman for Disney's consumer product division, Gary Foster, said last night that Disney was surprised by Ms. Holton's appointment at the rival publishing house, because she ''has not been released from her employment agreement.''
In one of the largest discrimination awards to a single plaintiff on record, UBS, Europe's largest bank, was ordered by a federal jury in New York to pay more than $29 million in damages to a former saleswoman who sued the firm for sex discrimination.
After a three-year trial, Laura Zubulake, 44, was awarded $20.1 million in punitive damages plus $9.1 million in compensatory damages after the jury decided that the bank mistreated her because she was a woman and then fired her after she complained to the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission.
As Congress again began work on legislation to strengthen oversight of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, the two big mortgage finance companies, the Federal Reserve chairman urged lawmakers on Wednesday to impose sharp limits on the $1.5 trillion holdings of the companies.
Appearing before the Senate Banking Committee, the Fed chairman, Alan Greenspan, said the enormous portfolios of the companies -- nearly a quarter of the home-mortgage market -- posed significant risks to the nation's financial system should either company face significant problems.
Critics of efforts by Nielsen Media Research to change the way it measures television ratings have met with a setback from the Federal Trade Commission, which says it sees no reason to assume oversight of Nielsen or how ratings data are gathered.
''Absent deceptive or unfair practices, it would not be within the commission's authority to impose quality standards for accuracy in audience measurement,'' Deborah Platt Majoras, the chairwoman of the commission, wrote in a letter to Representative Albert Wynn, a Minnesota Democrat. The letter was released yesterday by Nielsen, part of VNU.
The New York Stock Exchange yesterday named Marshall N. Carter, a former chief executive of the State Street Corporation, an institutional investment firm, as its new chairman.
Mr. Carter, 64, succeeds John S. Reed, the former chairman of Citigroup, who was brought in to steady the exchange after the departure of Richard A. Grasso 18 months ago. Mr. Grasso was forced out as chairman and chief executive of the world's largest stock exchange shortly after it was disclosed that he was awarded a pay package of $139.5 million in deferred compensation and retirement benefits in 2003.
The sheets were soft and silky, with subtle stripes.
The bedroom console had a wood veneer with a honey-maple finish -- ''not paper,'' said the Wal-Mart representative, showing off the new model.
General Motors said yesterday that it would stop advertising in The Los Angeles Times ''until further notice.'' A G.M. spokeswoman characterized the decision as the culmination of a long-running dispute between the automaker and the newspaper over how G.M. is portrayed.
''It involves news reporting, it involves opinion. It's pretty broad-based, and we've made our objections well known to The Times,'' the G.M. spokeswoman, Ryndee Carney, said.
The Securities and Exchange Commission won a court order yesterday to secure documents in the investigation into various American International Group transactions with offshore reinsurance companies and privately held entities closely aligned with the company.
The court order, issued in Federal District Court in Manhattan, prohibits Maurice R. Greenberg, former chairman and chief executive of A.I.G.; the company itself; and C.V. Starr, a privately held insurance company that was owned and run by A.I.G. executives and officers, from destroying any documents related to the investigation. It also puts into effect procedures for different participants to examine documents.
Concerns about prescribing pain relievers deepened yesterday, doctors said, after the announcements that Pfizer would withdraw its embattled painkiller Bextra from the market and that tough warning labels would be added to other leading pain medications.
The drugs, which have come under increasing scrutiny, will most likely be prescribed for shorter periods, while patients in higher risk groups will be encouraged to try alternatives, like low dose opiates and pain patches, according to doctors interviewed yesterday.
The government's decision to force Pfizer to withdraw the pain drug Bextra and add warnings to the label of a similar drug, Celebrex, has galvanized the informal network of lawyers pursuing death and injury suits aimed at the two drugs and their chemical relative, Vioxx.
Yesterday, at least one new Bextra suit was filed against Pfizer in Houston, adding to a smattering of others from around the country in the last year. And a Louisiana lawyer, anticipating a flood of new suits, filed a motion calling for consolidation of federal Bextra and Celebrex cases.
In a meeting with investors just three days ago, Pfizer executives repeatedly promised that Bextra, a painkiller that generated $1.3 billion in sales last year, would help the company through a difficult transition period.
Guess again.
The back-ordered Prius, with its hybrid gasoline-electric engine, is coming into the United States as fast as Toyota can turn the car out: 7,000 were shipped from Japan in February and the same number in January. That is just one of many indicators of how the everyday needs and desires of Americans keep imports rising despite a weaker dollar.
This winter, ships, planes and trucks coming from abroad also carried extra loads of costume jewelry from Austria and China; front-loading washing machines from Germany; tires from the Far East; refrigerators from Mexico and South Korea; and computers from China.
Syngenta, the Swiss agrochemicals company, was fined $375,000 by the United States Department of Agriculture for inadvertently selling unapproved genetically altered corn seed, the company said Friday.
The Department of Agriculture also required Syngenta to develop a training program to keep the mix-up in seeds from happening again, the company said.
Cablevision Systems said yesterday that it had decided to shut its Voom satellite business, but that it would continue to own and sell rights to 21 high-definition television channels.
The action, noted in a government filing, appears to resolve a standoff between the Cablevision chairman, Charles F. Dolan, and his son, James L. Dolan, the chief executive, over whether to finance the satellite business.
The Ford Motor Company lowered its earnings forecast for the year on Friday, citing higher gas prices and rising health care costs. The company said it would also abandon its goal of $7 billion in pretax profit by 2006, a cornerstone of the turnaround plan that its chief executive, William Clay Ford Jr., put in place after he took control in 2001.
Ford, the nation's second-largest automaker, now expects to earn $1.25 to $1.50 a share for the year, down from its previous guidance of $1.75 to $1.90 a share.
The nation's three leading drug wholesalers have received subpoenas from the New York attorney general, Eliot Spitzer, that appear to signal a broad inquiry into the behind-the-scenes market in which pharmaceuticals are purchased and resold, sometimes several times, before they reach consumers.
Many of the drugs traded in this secondary bazaar are legitimate and are the excess inventory from overstocked warehouses. But critics of the system say the discounted prices wholesalers obtain through the secondary system are rarely passed to consumers.
Geraldine Stutz, who transformed Henri Bendel from a carriage trade retailer in decline into a chic emporium of designer brands in the 1960's, died yesterday at her home in New York. She was 80.
Her death came after a long illness, said her stepdaughter, Emma Turner.
IMAGINE walking around in a bathing suit in 80-degree temperatures, with water all around you. Now imagine the dead of winter just yards away.
The two scenes don't seem to match. But for hotels with attached indoor water parks, the combination has become lucrative. Now, more hotels are spending up to $75 million each to build huge enclosed water parks, hoping to lure families -- sometimes from just a few miles away.
FOR many investors, finding the right mix of stocks and bonds is a task better left to a professional. But there is a middle ground between going it alone and hiring a financial adviser: picking a mutual fund that blends stock, bond and money market funds all in one, and that tailors the investment mix to the approximate year you plan to retire.
Fund companies like Fidelity Investments, T.Rowe Price and Vanguard offer these portfolios, also called life cycle or target maturity funds, which try to strike a balance between growth and income and continuously adjust the allocation as retirement grows nearer. For example, a 30-year-old worker who expects to retire at 65 might choose a 2040 fund, which would start with an aggressive investment mix providing a relatively high concentration in stocks, then taper toward conservatism as that target year approached.
IN a world where executive perp walks have lost their novelty, where's the justice? Investors who have seen executives drive their companies off a cliff don't necessarily gain succor from such parades, or from the dry sentences and fines that may be doled out by a jury. They crave that deeper, more satisfying sense of justice that comes from seeing somebody get what they think he truly deserves.
The difference between court justice and what I'd like to call ''sublime justice'' is not a difficult concept. But it's a bit nuanced, so here's an example. It seems that Kenneth L. Lay, the former Enron chairman who faces trial next January on fraud charges, has paid Google, the online search service, to place ads next to or above searches about Enron and related topics and direct people to a site that gives his side of the story. (According to this Web site, he's not a crook.)
TEN years ago, Microsoft unveiled Windows 95 in a way that suggested that the product's arrival was no less momentous than when humans stood upright for the first time. The company spent about $200 million introducing the operating system. That paid for festivities on the Microsoft campus (with Jay Leno as M.C.), rights to use the Rolling Stones song ''Start Me Up'' in a global advertising campaign and permission to bathe the Empire State Building at night with the Windows logo. It also loaded The Times of London with Windows 95 advertising that day, making the newspaper a one-day freebie, a first in its 307 years.
What was remarkable about the Windows 95 introduction was the acquiescence of customers, who participated so willingly in the spectacle. Microsoft arranged for retail outlets to open at midnight on the day the system would first be available, a stunt that proved as irresistible as klieg lights at a Hollywood premiere. One chain counted some 50,000 people lined up at its stores across the country.
GIVEN the hazards of hang gliding, it is a bit disquieting to hear Mike Meier, an owner of the glider manufacturer Wills Wing, say that the trial and error method is integral to the company's design process. Rest assured, however, that Mr. Meier was not implying that test pilots are placed in unnecessary peril. The minor errors to which he referred affect in-flight speed and handling, not safety.
The 32 years spent correcting such flaws have led to the company's T2 model, which will soon replace Will Wing's previous top-of-the-line hang glider, the Talon. Though the two gliders are tough to distinguish from each other with the naked eye, Mr. Meier said that the T2 offered approximately 1 percent better overall performance than its predecessor.
Among the people celebrating North Carolina's national championship in men's college basketball last week was Vaughn D. Bryson, the former chief executive of Eli Lilly -- and a former first baseman for the university's baseball team.
Mr. Bryson, along with his wife, Nancy, and their two grown children -- all North Carolina alumni -- were courtside in St. Louis for the N.C.A.A. championship game, in which North Carolina's Tar Heels beat Illinois, 75-70. ''This was so exciting, being there for the national championship,'' said Mr. Bryson, 66.
WHEN Berkshire Hathaway shareholders gather here in three weeks for their annual meeting, they will be treated to another homespun video starring the company's chairman, Warren E. Buffett. This year's plot is still a secret, but Mr. Buffett's co-star in last year's video was Arnold Schwarzenegger, the governor of California.
Mr. Schwarzenegger appeared in Army fatigues and took Mr. Buffett -- who may be the Charles Atlas of investors but who has the musculature of a chipmunk -- through a grueling workout to punish him for criticizing inequities in California's property tax system. At the end of the video, Mr. Buffett graces the cover of a fitness magazine, sporting six-pack abs and rippling biceps, much to the governor's surprise.
The stock market rose modestly last week as energy prices declined and a number of companies issued optimistic earnings reports.
The price of oil fell for five consecutive days in New York, reaching $53.32 a barrel on Friday, the lowest close since early March, amid indications that gasoline supplies in the United States would be enough for the peak summer driving season. In a report on Wednesday, the Energy Department said that oil stocks in the United States had risen over the previous eight weeks.
Oprah Winfrey is thanking her 2.6 million readers for their loyalty with a treat. In May, along with the fifth anniversary issue of O, The Oprah Magazine, will come a book of Ms. Winfrey's wit and wisdom, sponsored by Dove soap.
The book, which will be given free to the magazine's subscribers and its nearly one million newsstand readers, cost between $1 million and $2 million to produce and was published in-house by the magazine, which is a co-venture of Hearst Magazines and Harpo Print.
The music has stopped, at least for the time being, at a much-heralded music magazine, Tracks.
Tracks, which proclaimed its focus to be ''music for grown-ups'' -- that is, people 30 and over -- is going on hiatus, John Rollins, the chief executive, based in New York, said Friday, as additional money is sought. An issue with a June/July cover date that was to be readied for publication will not be printed, he added, because ''if we don't have the cash, we can't put out the next issue.''
For further evidence that the Internet can be complementary to print, consider this: Radar magazine, which folded two years ago and is being revived in May, is starting a Web site before publishing the magazine itself.
Come the end of April, visitors to the Web site (www.radarmagazine.com) will be reintroduced to Radar, which its founders are trying to make irreverent, urban and fun. Then, by the time the magazine comes out on May 24, readers will have been primed for the first issue and be looking forward to the next.
In video game vernacular, which of these commands seems out of place: throw punch, slay dragon or view Sprite billboard?
It's a trick question; they all belong.
MBIA'S giant bond insurer remains a member in good standing of an elite club rated triple-A. But with its parent company, MBIA Inc., now under scrutiny from regulators, some investors and analysts have been forced to consider what would happen if MBIA were to lose that status.
Early last month, MBIA Inc. said it would restate seven years of results because of two finite insurance deals it struck in 1998. A few weeks later, the company said it had received new subpoenas from the Securities and Exchange Commission and the New York attorney general's office. It is the uncertainty about the wide-ranging investigation into insurance, and the prospect of further restatements, that has driven concerns about MBIA's status.
The Corporation for Public Broadcasting has decided to replace its president and chief executive, Kathleen A. Cox, who has been in the post about nine months.
While it seeks a successor for Ms. Cox, the corporation will be led by W. Kenneth Ferree, a former senior official at the Federal Communications Commission who played a significant role in the failed effort to loosen rules to make it easier for media companies to expand into new businesses and geographic areas. Last month, Mr. Ferree, a telecommunications lawyer, was named chief operating officer of the corporation.
MCI's board is likely to seek a sweetened takeover offer from Verizon Communications, an executive close to the company said yesterday.
On Saturday, Verizon agreed to buy out the company's biggest shareholder, Carlos Slim Helú, for $25.72 a share, 11 percent more than it said it would pay per share for the rest of the company. After buying Mr. Slim's stake, Verizon would become MCI's largest shareholder.
Universal Pictures, in the first major executive change since it was acquired by General Electric last year, said Tuesday that Mary Parent and Scott Stuber, both vice chairmen of worldwide production, would leave to become film producers at the studio.
They will be succeeded by another Universal executive, Donna Langley, who is being promoted to president of production.
Consumer technology seers say they think they have a good idea about the home of the future. It will be a place where photos, television shows, movies and music will be stored centrally and available in any room on demand.
It is called the connected home, where television sets, digital video recorders, DVD and music players and computers are all tied together. But an important question must be answered before the connected home becomes a reality: how will everything actually be connected?
In the hands of a preteenager, a cellphone can be a double-edged sword. It can give parents a sense of security because the child is never out of reach. But it can also cause anxiety because they do not know what else the child is doing with it -- burning up the family's minutes, perhaps.
The Firefly, a new phone from Firefly Mobile, is meant to help reduce such parental angst. Aimed at children age 8 to 12, it is a voice-only phone that gives parents control over how their child uses it.
At 2.5 pounds and with a 12.1-inch screen, the Dell Latitude X1 resembles an elongated, pumped-up version of a digital organizer, or perhaps a Sony Vaio knock-off. But it actually is a Samsung Q30 in slightly altered form (Dell licensed the design) and it is a workhorse, intended to appeal to the business traveler with a need for wireless access.
The Latitude is an inch thick, and can easily be stored in the side pocket of a suitcase or even the back pocket of a pair of baggy jeans. The liquid-crystal display is easy to read in wan sunlight, and the antispill keyboard is latte-proof.
The Japanese Internet start-up Livedoor and the Fuji Television Network are discussing a possible alliance, signaling that a contentious two-month struggle for control of a Tokyo radio broadcaster may end amicably.
The two companies have been locked in a battle for the radio company, the Nippon Broadcasting System, which is an affiliate of Fuji TV, Japan's biggest private television network. Livedoor, an Internet services and portal company, stunned Japan's investment community by buying up more than half the shares in the radio broadcaster in the last two months, dislodging Fuji TV as Nippon Broadcasting's largest shareholder.
A former broker with First Command Financial Planning, a brokerage firm that specialized in selling investments to military personnel, was fined $25,000 and suspended for 10 months for recommending unsuitable investment strategies to clients, NASD announced yesterday.
NASD, formerly the National Association of Securities Dealers, said that the former broker, Louis E. Stough, had recommended to 12 customers that they liquidate shares of mutual funds and reinvest the proceeds in ways that gave him large commissions but cost them substantially more than was necessary.
CONSIDER the awkward decision confronting the admissions director of a highly selective university that is trying to move forward in the academic pecking order (one of, say, 50 institutions that would have landed in the top 10 this year, except for various flaws in the rankings formula).
On the director's desk sit the folders for two applicants. They have almost the same credentials, but one is just a little better than the other. She has a 4.2 grade point average, the other just a 4.0. She attained a combined score of 1580 on her SAT's, the other only 1440. Her family has an annual income of $500,000, the other's only $30,000.
Oil shares, along with stocks that would be hurt if the economy slows, led the stock market lower yesterday as the three main market gauges fell 1 percent or more.
The declines wiped out all the gains from Tuesday, when the stock market rebounded from early losses after Federal Reserve officials indicated that they were not worried enough about inflation to shift to half-point increases in their benchmark interest rate.
Consumers spent more on gasoline last month and far less than expected over all, the government said yesterday, suggesting that prices at the pump are starting to curb other purchases.
The Commerce Department reported that retail sales in March rose 0.3 percent, to $339 billion, a slower rate than the 0.5 percent increase in February and significantly below Wall Street's forecasts for an increase of 0.8 percent, according to Bloomberg News.
WHEN you really stop to think about it, memory cards are a pretty delicate storage format for something as important as your digital photos. So many things can happen to memory cards: they can get lost, stolen, corrupted or, in the case of those little tiny xD-Picture cards, blown into the next ZIP code when you sneeze.
The point, of course, is that memory cards are designed for temporary storage inside the camera. Once the card is full, your photos desperately want to be transferred to some larger, safer, more permanent home.
Freddie Mac, the nation's second-largest buyer of mortgages, said yesterday that it had unknowingly bought a small number of mortgages that had ''unacceptable refinance'' terms and then sold them in securities offerings to investors.
The company said an investigation had discovered that a California broker sold borrowers mortgages with above-market interest rates and then provided financial incentives to encourage quick refinancing. The broker, who was not identified, profited from the fees from the quick turnover.
In another blow to consumer confidence in the security of personal data, the fashion giant Polo Ralph Lauren said yesterday that the credit card information of some customers may have been put at risk.
The announcement comes after HSBC, the banking conglomerate, began sending letters to 180,000 holders of its GM-branded MasterCards last week to notify them of a ''security breach'' at an unidentified ''national retailer'' that may have compromised their accounts. The Wall Street Journal identified that retailer yesterday as Polo Ralph Lauren.
MAJOR institutional investors are up in arms over the way MCI has conducted itself in finding a buyer. Its board so far has backed the lower bid from the company that can best afford it, Verizon, rather than the higher bid from Qwest, a company that is, to put it gently, financially challenged.
''The question is not whether Verizon is a larger, more financially sound company that possesses assets, such as wireless, that Qwest lacks,'' Bill Miller, the chief investment officer at Legg Mason, wrote in an angry letter to MCI. ''It is and it does. The question is which transaction creates the most value for MCI owners.''
A federal judge in Indianapolis upheld Eli Lilly's patent on Zyprexa, a treatment for schizophrenia that was among the top-selling drugs in the United States last year, with $2.4 billion in sales.
Lilly had sued three generic drug companies to protect its patent, after the generic companies claimed that the patent was invalid because Zyprexa is too similar to other chemical compounds whose patents have already expired. In a 224-page ruling, Judge Richard L. Young of Federal District Court backed Lilly's position, finding Zyprexa different from the other compounds and worthy of protection.
A quiet revolution is taking place in Medicare, one that could set a new standard for the way medicine is practiced in this country.
For the first time in its history, Medicare is starting to embrace an approach that has changed industries as diverse as carmakers and fast-food restaurants -- giving employees financial incentives to meet goals for quality.
In just the last few weeks, the grand plans that were supposed to carry General Motors and Ford Motor into their second centuries have crumbled.
Sales at G.M. have fallen, profits have tumbled to losses. Last week, Ford also warned of a drop in earnings. Thursday, in yet another blow, its union refused to give much ground on G.M.'s health care coverage. If that were not enough, G.M.'s stock hit a 12-year low. [Page C1.]
A freshly painted, six-foot-high steel tank is this rural town's hope for cleaning up a smelly gasoline additive that is fouling its water system. The additive, methyl tertiary butyl ether, has seeped into two of three wells that supply water for 2,000 residents.
In a few weeks, the carbon filtration system housed by the tank will begin treating the well water. The water company plans to expand treatment to a reserve well, 1,000 feet away, where the level of the chemical tested last September at more than twice the federal recommended limit. The filtration unit is expected to cost about $1 million the first year and $250,000 to operate each year afterward, said Rich Henning, a spokesman for United Water, a private company that supplies Woodbury and three other communities in Connecticut.
The Raytheon Company offered yesterday to pay $12 million to settle an investigation into its accounting practices by the Securities and Exchange Commission, and said it had reached an agreement to pay $39 million to settle a class-action lawsuit brought by shareholders over a sale of assets in 2000.
The settlement, which is subject to S.E.C. approval, would resolve an inquiry into practices at Raytheon's commuter aircraft division from 1997-2001.
Citigroup, the world's largest financial services company, said yesterday that first-quarter earnings rose 3.2 percent on higher growth in its consumer banking, helping to offset other businesses like asset management that were weaker.
The company also announced plans to buy back as much as $15 billion in shares over the next 18 months. Citigroup earned $5.44 billion, or $1.04 a share, compared with $5.27 billion, or $1.01 a share, a year earlier. Revenue increased 6 percent, to $21.5 billion.
The farmer reaches down into a sack he keeps stored on the second floor of his house in a small farming village south of here and pulls up a fistful of rice that he says has no equal.
''This is really remarkable rice,'' he says, forcing it into the hands of his guests. ''All you do is plant it and it grows. You don't need to use all those chemicals any more.''
After J.P. Morgan agreed to pay a $2 billion settlement in the WorldCom case last month, the New York state comptroller, Alan G. Hevesi, had this to say to a scrum of reporters waiting outside the federal courthouse in Lower Manhattan: ''I'm trying to sound like a lawyer; I'm not a lawyer.''
To some, that is precisely the problem.
On the same day last month that the United States announced that it would sell F-16 fighter jets to Pakistan, President Bush personally called the prime minister of India, Pakistan's archrival, with advice intended to soften the blow. The United States, Mr. Bush confided, had decided to allow fighter jet sales to India as well.
Newspapers around the world put the Pakistani deal in headlines. But it was the 15-minute phone call that was heard loud and clear by American military contractors.
GENE DICKEY knew that he had selected the right hotel in Bangkok when his silk shirt arrived from the dry cleaner within 30 minutes -- nestled in a wicker basket, in tissue paper adorned with orchids. Now, whenever he travels to that city, he stays at that hotel, the Peninsula.
''If five hotels are great, I want to know where I should stay and why,'' said Mr. Dickey, 54, a retired food industry executive who works for a nonprofit organization. ''Bangkok is kind of a long way to go to make a mistake.
Few former chief executives acknowledge that they miss the power of running a company. That makes the candor of Josh S. Weston -- who retired as the chairman of Automatic Data Processing in 1998, two years after he stepped down as chief executive -- particularly refreshing.
His life in retirement is busy and rewarding. He serves on the boards of J. Crew, the retailer; Gentiva Health Services, which provides nurses and health care services at home; and Russ Berrie & Company, a toy company. He also works as part of a group of business experts who advise the Pentagon.
LIKE many doctors in private practice, Andrew A. Slemp Jr. figured that he could earn enough from the small surgical group he started in Roanoke, Va., to enjoy a comfortable retirement. But Dr. Slemp, who is in his early 60's, recently dissolved his practice after running into financial trouble when his malpractice insurer collapsed.
In Kansas City, Kan., another doctor, Joel N. Schroeder, is considering filing for bankruptcy. He is unable to pay a $750,000 malpractice claim that a state judge levied against him on behalf of survivors of an elderly stroke victim. Before the case went to trial, Dr. Schroeder, who contested the accusation, learned that his malpractice insurer, the same as Dr. Slemp's, had imploded.
BABIES wearing emeralds?
Well, why not? In the last year, two categories in retailing seem to be doing well: infants and luxury. Witness the success of Babies ''R'' Us, even as Toys ''R'' Us struggles. On the luxury end, see how Neiman Marcus's sales and stock price keep going up and up.
When the Octel Corporation found that its chief executive had initiated a transaction that it says ''may have resulted in a potential violation of certain laws,'' did it send him packing with two weeks' pay? Strip him of his pension? Shun him? Hardly.
It did insist that he step down as C.E.O., which he did on Friday, but did not stop his paychecks.
The Motion Picture Association of America's ratings code -- G, PG, PG-13, R and NC-17 -- is so familiar that the initials are used in everyday conversation about subjects that have nothing to do with movies. But that doesn't mean that the association wants just anybody to use them.
Recently the association sent e-mail messages and letters to people who write online fan fiction, demanding that they stop tagging stories with the ratings. Fan fiction, which uses characters from popular TV shows, movies and novels in original stories, has used movie ratings for years as a way to help adults find stories with mature content and to steer children away from it. Too many children looking for Harry Potter stories were stumbling onto new and unexpected uses for wands.
FOR years, advertising research was perceived on Madison Avenue as a staid, even quaint, field with little practical relevance. Now, as clients increasingly hold agencies accountable for effective ads, the researchers are being eagerly sought out.
In response, the research industry is intensifying its efforts and looking at issues like trying to determine the return on investment for advertising spending, improving the measurement of audiences in media like television and the Internet, helping agencies identify the most efficient media outlets and increasing the role that market research plays in reaching consumers.
When a toddler's wails soar to piercing volume, do you shake the baby rattle or dangle the mobile phone?
An unlikely group of entertainment companies is betting on the mobile phone. The target customers are children who may be incapable of coherent telephone conversation but will cuddle with a portable phone to watch Ernie deliver an ode to his chubby rubber ducky.
There are about 10 million blogs out there, give or take, including one belonging to Niall Kennedy, an employee at Technorati, a small San Francisco-based company that, yes, tracks blogs.
Like many employees at many companies, Mr. Kennedy has opinions, even when he is not working. One evening last month, he channeled one of those off-duty opinions into a satiric bit of artwork -- an appropriation of a ''loose lips sink ships'' World War II-era propaganda poster altered to provide a harsh comment on the growing fears among corporations over the blogging activities of their employees. He then posted it on his personal Web log.
The Intel Corporation is expected to announce today that it has begun selling a computer chip designed to pick up long-range high-speed wireless Internet signals.
The chip is designed to be built into modems, enabling them to pick up so-called WiMax transmissions, which can carry data traffic over more than 20 miles. The technology is seen as both complement and successor to Wi-Fi transmissions, which send data over shorter distances.
Ann Fudge, who has led Young & Rubicam Brands and its struggling advertising agency, Young & Rubicam, since May 2003, will cede control of the agency as soon as a successor is found but will remain in charge of Y.&R. Brands, the agency said.
Ms. Fudge, chairwoman and chief executive of both Y.&R. and Y.&R. Brands, has faced pressure as the advertising agency lost clients like Burger King, Computer Associates International, the Jaguar division of Ford Motor and Sony Electronics. There has been widespread speculation for several weeks that the WPP Group, the parent of Y.&R. Brands, had begun a search for an executive to assume duties at the agency.
''Frankly, there's a gold rush out there,'' Jeffrey J. Ake wrote in a 1993 article for Inc. Magazine that extolled the growth opportunities for small businesses in exports.
Mr. Ake was ahead of the curve. New markets were opening in the farthest-flung corners of the world, and he urged small-business owners to broaden their horizons and go for them. ''Nothing can take the place of the old-fashioned sales trip,'' he wrote. ''You make sales trips to Des Moines, Sacramento and Pittsburgh, right? Get yourself to Bangkok, Taipei and Santiago.''
Six years ago, I flew to Texas with one of our sales managers to meet the executive chef of Hooters. I had only been with StockPot for six months. Everything was going swimmingly.
We were all nodding and smiling, and I was feeling extremely proud of myself. Then I made the mistake of asking the chef if there was anything else she wanted to know. She asked if our soups began with a base or a stock and I answered that we used a base.
Verizon Communications said yesterday that it would allow current customers in 13 Northeast states to drop telephone service but continue to get high-speed Internet access through digital subscriber lines.
Verizon characterized the new policy, which took effect yesterday, as a first step toward offering stand-alone D.S.L. services in all regions where it operates.
THE city that wants to be known as ''the world's second home,'' to quote a trademark application recently filed by the Bloomberg administration, is about to be inundated by a marketing blitz from a company that promotes itself as ''the world's local bank.''
The HSBC Bank USA unit of HSBC Holdings is mounting an elaborate campaign, with a budget estimated at $10 million to $15 million, meant to stimulate business in the increasingly competitive New York market. The campaign is the first major new effort for HSBC in the United States since JWT and other agencies owned by the WPP Group were named last May to handle the bank's worldwide account, with spending estimated at $600 million.
An executive at the American International Group, the insurance giant, has been put on leave amid a sweeping investigation into the company's accounting.
The executive, Michael J. Castelli, a former comptroller who was appointed chief administrative officer and a senior vice president in January, was put on leave recently, a company spokesman said. The spokesman declined to comment on why Mr. Castelli was put on leave.
Lehman Brothers has agreed to buy 20 percent of Ospraie Management, a hedge fund that manages about $2 billion and invests primarily in basic industries and commodities, people briefed on the negotiations said yesterday.
The deal, while small, highlights two trends on Wall Street.
Sears is adding some Latin flair.
In collaboration with Latina magazine, Sears, Roebuck & Company will introduce this fall a line of clothes, handbags and shoes designed with Hispanic women in mind. The collection, which will appear in 425 stores -- about half of all Sears stores -- is the biggest such introduction in recent history, said Gwen K. Manto, the company's executive vice president for clothes and accessories.
The stock market struggled to regain its footing yesterday, as the dollar fell in value and foreign markets tumbled.
And, amid investors' concerns about profit growth, a third of the companies in the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index began a week of reporting their quarterly results.
William C. Durant collected car companies the way other people collect cars.
When Mr. Durant, a turn-of-the-century horse carriage magnate, started buying up carmakers in the early 20th century and formed General Motors, he began with Buick, Olds and Oakland Motor Car, whose cars would become known as Pontiacs.
NBC dismissed the executive producer of its morning news program ''Today'' yesterday, acknowledging that it was concerned about its rapidly diminishing ratings advantage in the lucrative area of morning television.
A senior NBC News executive said NBC dismissed the producer, Tom Touchet, who had held the post since November 2002. He is the third executive producer forced off the show since January 2001.
The Los Angeles Times said on Tuesday that it had dismissed a reporter after an internal inquiry could not verify the sources of some quotations and found numerous errors in an article about fraternity hazing and the death of a student at a state university.
The newspaper announced the dismissal of the reporter, Eric Slater, at the end of an editor's note in its Tuesday issue. The note said that the article, which was published on March 29, relied on poor reporting techniques, used quotations from anonymous sources whom editors could not verify and included a string of factual errors.
Scott Rudin, a veteran producer whose films last year ranged from a failed remake of ''The Stepford Wives'' to a well-received adaptation of Broadway's ''Closer,'' said Tuesday that he would end his long-standing deal with Paramount Pictures and begin making movies for Walt Disney Studios when his contract expires in 2006.
Mr. Rudin is the first major producer to leave Paramount since the former talent manager Brad Grey joined the company as chief executive last month in a management shake-up. It has been widely expected that Mr. Rudin would leave the studio, where his 15-year tenure was rooted in a close relationship with the departing Paramount chairwoman, Sherry Lansing.
Roche Holding reported a 14 percent surge in its first-quarter revenues on Tuesday, driven by its cancer treatment, Avastin, and by government stockpiling of its bird flu vaccine, Tamiflu.
Group sales rose to 8.09 billion Swiss francs ($6.8 billion), of which Roche's pharmaceutical division contributed 6.16 billion Swiss francs ($5.1 billion), a jump of 18 percent, the company said. Roche, based in Basel, Switzerland, releases earnings figures only twice a year. The company said that drug sales this year would likely exceed a previous growth target of 10 percent, given the strong first-quarter figures. Profit margin may surpass the 25.7 percent achieved in 2004, the company said.
Starting a company and taking it public has long been the goal of many biotechnology entrepreneurs and the venture capitalists that back them.
Now, though, with the stock market unreceptive and pharmaceutical companies desperate for new products, some small privately held biotech companies are opting for a more certain if potentially less spectacular payoff: selling themselves to larger companies.
The Pentagon introduced proposed regulations yesterday aimed at preventing marketing practices that have exposed military personnel, especially recruits and junior officers, to high-pressure or deceptive sales pitches for insurance and other financial products.
The proposed rules are the Defense Department's first official response to concerns raised in Congress last fall after reports in The New York Times documented abusive sales practices and unsuitable financial products on several military bases, including Fort Benning in Georgia and Camp Pendleton in California. Congress is considering legislation, introduced with bipartisan support, to address problems raised in the reports.
Cyndi Stivers, the founding editor in chief of Time Out New York, said yesterday that she was stepping down as president and editorial director to join Martha Stewart Living Omnimedia as an executive vice president, effective May 18.
The move reunites Ms. Stivers, 48, with Susan Lyne, the president and chief executive at Martha Stewart Living Omnimedia; Ms. Stivers worked for Ms. Lyne at Premiere magazine. Alison Tocci, 47, publisher at Time Out New York, will succeed Ms. Stivers as president and group publisher.
A soaring trade surplus and strong investment in new apartment buildings and office towers helped lift the Chinese economy to 9.5 percent growth in the first quarter, considerably stronger than expected and above the government's target of 8 percent, China's statistics agency announced on Wednesday.
The economy's heavy reliance on soaring exports and a feverish property market, in which luxury apartments change hands at steeply rising prices despite high vacancy rates, prompted concern among investors and economists alike.
Morgan Stanley was shaken by another round of defections yesterday as eight senior traders left the firm for Deutsche Bank, adding to a stream of executive departures in recent weeks.
In some ways, yesterday's resignations may be the most painful yet for Philip J. Purcell, Morgan Stanley's embattled chief executive. Unlike many of those who previously departed, the eight stock traders, three of whom were managing directors, represented the next generation of young, elite Morgan Stanley talent that Mr. Purcell and his team have been trying to cultivate.
Noise-killing headphones once came in just two designs: large and expensive over-the-ear models with active noise-cancellation technology, and even more expensive in-ear models that form seals to block noise naturally.
Available in May, the SoundShield compact headphones from Brookstone ($150) -- with a built-in equalizer, adjustable headband and hard-shell case -- offer a compromise. The four-ounce set is about the size of the over-the-ear headphones that came with the Walkman of the 1980's, and it provides the comfort of large, active noise-canceling models as well as the passive noise isolation of in-ear models.
Until recently it was complicated for casual photographers to shoot digital pictures underwater. You had to buy a separate waterproof housing for your camera and then worry about how well it would work.
The Optio WP from Pentax has taken out the middleman. The $350 digicam does not require a separate housing to keep it watertight. Pentax says it will function for up to 30 minutes in water up to 5 feet deep, and it's dunkable right out of the box.
A federal bankruptcy judge cleared the way last night for Time Warner and Comcast to proceed with the acquisition of Adelphia Communications.
Judge Robert Gerber approved a $440 million breakup fee, payable to Time Warner and Comcast, if another bidder should better their $17.6 billion offer for Adelphia.
Personal computers increasingly fill home entertainment needs. And why not? They are already the repositories for digital photos, music and video collections. With an attached TV or radio tuner and digital video recorder and encoder, they can replace nearly every entertainment device in the house.
But the demands placed on machines to store large video files and process them quickly can be too much for standard home computers.
Executives and directors of American International Group discussed corporate governance questions in 2002 that had been raised about two private companies, C.V. Starr and Starr International, newly unsealed court documents show.
As part of a wide-ranging investigation into the company's possibly questionable transactions, regulators are looking at the close relationship between A.I.G. and C.V. Starr and Starr International. A.I.G. does business with both entities, which are significant A.I.G. shareholders. A.I.G. has disclosed little about the companies, whose shareholders are all A.I.G. executives and managers.
Federal prosecutors announced Thursday that a second big maker of computer memory chips, Hynix Semiconductor of South Korea, had agreed to plead guilty to participating in a global conspiracy to fix prices and would pay a $185 million fine, the largest criminal penalty assessed during the Bush administration.
The Justice Department announced the inquiry last September and disclosed that Infineon Technologies, a German chip maker, had agreed to pay a $160 million fine in the case. Shortly after that announcement, four Infineon executives pleaded guilty to conspiracy to fix prices and were each sentenced to penalties of $250,000 and prison terms of four to six months.
Pernod Ricard of France plans to use its $14 billion purchase of Allied Domecq as a springboard to become the world's largest liquor company, challenging the top-ranked Diageo, Pernod executives said Thursday.
The deal could ignite more consolidation in the industry, as smaller players rush to buy their rivals or risk being bought up themselves, analysts said.
Representative Rob Portman, President Bush's nominee to be the next United States trade representative, answered mounting criticism of the administration's trade policies on Thursday by promising that he would take a stricter approach to China if he were confirmed.
At his confirmation hearing before the Senate Finance Committee, Mr. Portman, a Republican from Ohio, fielded repeated questions about China's refusal to follow international trade laws, especially those covering intellectual property rights. ''We need a tougher approach,'' he said.
THREE decades ago, Congress mandated a national market system. Now we may be on the verge of getting one, with stock market competition in America first intensifying and then producing an oligopoly.
The wave of mergers that has begun reflects the likelihood that only a few American stock markets will survive. There is a real chance that every market will trade stocks listed on all major markets.
For years, they competed like the New York Yankees and the Boston Red Sox.
The New York Stock Exchange, with its floor traders who interact with computers and with each other, and Nasdaq, with its fully automated trading system, fought fiercely for trading business, mocking each other's systems as inefficient. Then electronic upstarts came along, and the battle became more wide open and uncertain.
Mimi Rauschelbach, a retired businesswoman from Phoenix, says she is confident about the strength of the American economy. But that is not translating, as it often does, into confidence in the stock market.
Like thousands of individual investors across the country, she has become more cautious than she was in years past about investing in stocks. And it may not make much difference that the stock market's main measures had their best day of the year yesterday.
In 1966, when the Neil Simon musical ''Sweet Charity'' opened on Broadway, a waiter in one scene asked a customer, ''A double Scotch, again, sir?'' In the revival, soon to open at the Al Hirschfeld Theater, the waiter asks, ''Gran Centenario, the tequila?''
Madison Avenue has come to Broadway.
The federal government said yesterday that it had reached an agreement to take over all four of United Airlines' employee pension plans, with a shortfall of $9.8 billion, making it the biggest pension failure since the government began insuring pension benefits in 1974.
The agreement, if approved by a federal bankruptcy judge, would remove an obstacle to the UAL Corporation's emergence from bankruptcy protection, which it entered in December 2002; UAL owns United.
Profit at Ericsson, the Swedish telecommunications equipment giant, soared 73 percent in the first quarter, the company said Friday, building on a recent run of healthy reports in the telecommunications industry.
The company, the world's largest supplier of mobile phone networks, said that first-quarter net income increased to 4.64 billion kronor ($660 million). Sales were up 12 percent from a year before, to 31.5 billion kronor, as Ericsson introduced third-generation services in Western Europe, and demand for wide-band code-division multiple access, or WCDMA, increased in Eastern Europe and Turkey.
The stock market stumbled again yesterday, finishing a volatile week with no hint of whether the recent slump was near an end.
After their best day in more than a year Thursday, the three main market measures fell 0.6 percent or more, after disappointing earnings from Eastman Kodak and Costco and another jump in the price of crude oil, to $55.39 a barrel. Still, the three gauges finished the week higher.
Decades after John Wayne and his cowboys vanquished the Indians for generations of white movie audiences, American Indian tribes are beginning to invest more than just lingering bad faith in Hollywood.
A few tribes are starting to put money into the same mainstream media that once glorified their demise. One Indian-financed movie, Rick Schroder's recently released ''Black Cloud,'' is about a young Navajo boxer who wins a spot on the United States Olympic team.
Get ready for the next level in the blogosphere.
Arianna Huffington, the columnist and onetime candidate for governor of California, is about to move blogging from the realm of the anonymous individual to the realm of the celebrity collective.
FOR sports dilettantes, the glory days have arrived.
Thanks to the Web, it has become nearly impossible to expose the casual sports fan in a water cooler debate of the previous night's games. For the price of a cup of coffee, the occasional fan can watch three minutes of video and pass himself off as an expert.
Mark DiMassimo, an advertising executive in New York, recently heard from a major client who decided to pull back on advertising in nationally circulated newspapers. The company's executives wanted to try a more targeted local-newspaper approach -- inspired, perhaps, by the narrowly focused ads proliferating online.
''One day they woke up and said, 'I'm sure some of this advertising is working, but I don't know how to tell if any of it is,''' said Mr. DiMassimo, chief executive and creative director at his own agency.
Shortly after the New York Stock Exchange announced on Wednesday a deal to transform itself, John A. Thain, the chief executive of the exchange, received an angry phone call from E. Stanley O'Neal, the chief executive of Merrill Lynch.
Mr. O'Neal was upset that Mr. Thain, a former president of Goldman Sachs and a significant shareholder in the firm, should have allowed Goldman to advise both the exchange and Archipelago, the electronic trading system it plans to acquire. In a brief, blunt exchange, Mr. O'Neal said that Goldman's role in the deal was inappropriate, according to a person who was briefed on the conversation.
RealNetworks has decided to fight free with free.
Real has been in the forefront of online music services that let computer users listen to songs from a vast library for a monthly fee. But such services have had a hard time competing with illegal file-sharing services and with Apple Computer's iTunes service, which sells songs at 99 cents each.
EVEN as the nation's health care costs keep climbing, the insurance companies that try to manage those costs have been prospering and increasing their profit. But some analysts see trouble ahead.
The share prices of three of the largest insurers -- WellPoint, UnitedHealth Group and Cigna -- reached 52-week highs early this month, at the peak of a two-year surge in the stocks of managed care companies. But since April 7, the big insurers have led the way down as a Standard & Poor's index of managed care stocks fell 8.4 percent while the broader S.&P. 500-stock index slipped only 3.3 percent.
AS the television networks get ready for their big ''upfront'' presentations next month, seeking to sell commercial time ahead of the start of the 2005-6 season, competitors from another medium, magazines, are intensifying efforts to attract advertisers -- in many instances, the same ones the networks want to woo.
So just as the TV networks seek to entice marketers with sales packages that go beyond running 30-second spots in shows, publishers are also developing elaborate offers that involve more than just running ad pages or advertorial sections in their magazines.
The investment banks that are being wooed to back a rival bid for the New York Stock Exchange agreed yesterday to study the exchange's deal with Archipelago independently.
John J. Mack, the Wall Street veteran who is advising the bankers, spoke with John A. Thain, the chief executive of the exchange, and said that his primary role would be to ensure that Mr. Thain made his case to the chief executives that the proposed merger with Archipelago, the electronic trading platform, represented the best deal for seat holders.
The federal agency that insures pensions could receive United Airlines securities worth $1 billion or more when the airline emerges from bankruptcy, according to a settlement agreement prepared for filing in federal bankruptcy court.
The settlement agreement, which listed the conditions for the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation to take over United's four employee pension plans, called for the agency to receive two classes of notes and $500 million of convertible preferred stock in UAL, United's parent, when the airline's reorganization is complete.
Two participants in a discontinued clinical drug trial have sued Amgen, demanding that it resume giving them an experimental treatment for Parkinson's disease that they say helped them immensely but that the company says is ineffective and potentially dangerous.
In their lawsuit, filed yesterday in Federal District Court in Manhattan, the plaintiffs say Amgen ''treated the patients as mere guinea pigs, as material to be discarded,'' and had violated a legal and moral obligation to continue to supply the drug.
Celera Genomics, which raced with the publicly financed Human Genome Project to decipher the human DNA sequence, has decided to abandon the business of selling genetic information. The company said yesterday that it was discontinuing its genome database subscription business and putting the information into the public domain.
Celera succeeded in signing up some subscribers to its genome database, but the company is still losing money and it never quite calmed critics who argued that fundamental information about basic human biology should be openly available to all.
The Joint Strike Fighter is to be a jet fighter for all people and all places.
For the Air Force, it will land on runways. A version for the Navy will be able to land on aircraft carriers. And the one for the Marines will land vertically to drop into global hot spots.
The first time Marc Fleury tried to raise money for his technology start-up company, in mid-2000, a venture capitalist told him that he didn't have merely a bad business plan but a terrible one. Not only was Mr. Fleury planning to compete against the likes of I.B.M., but his product was open-source software, which he would give away.
Four years later, he tried again. His business was still based on the free distribution of code, yet now there was a dogfight among venture capitalists competing to finance his company, called JBoss.
European Union officials stepped up pressure Wednesday on Italy's banking chief, Antonio Fazio, amid signs that Italy is trying to hinder the Dutch bank ABN Amro in its efforts to buy an Italian bank.
The European Union's competition commissioner, Neelie Kroes, wrote to Mr. Fazio Tuesday expressing concern over Italy's decision to limit ABN's stake in Banca Antonveneta to 20 percent while allowing a domestic rival, Banca Popolare di Lodi, to own nearly 30 percent, her spokesman, Jonathan Todd, said.
European regulators have tentatively concluded that some companies that use accounting rules developed in the United States, Canada and Japan should be required to provide additional information to investors if they want their securities to continue trading in Europe.
The report by a working group of the Committee of European Securities Regulators is to be released Thursday, but was made available by officials on Wednesday. It concludes that accounting standards in the three countries are close enough to international accounting standards to not require complete restatements, but the group mentions several areas where it says investors need information that may not be available in those countries.
Forget Web sites and molecular imaging. The biggest fields of opportunity for aspiring entrepreneurs are the same mundane ventures that have been kicking around for decades.
Think landscaping companies, child-care providers, janitorial services and nail and hair salons. In a generally buoyant market for low-technology businesses, those are four of the biggest winners by far. Altogether, sole proprietorships in the United States, a rough measure of the size of the small-business low-technology sector, grew by nearly 4 percent in 2002, the latest year with statistics available, to 17.6 million, and their combined revenue increased by 5.5 percent, to $770 billion. The figures come from the Census Bureau's Economic Census, a snapshot of the American economy that is taken every five years.
The Supreme Court ruled on Wednesday that farmers whose crops are damaged by federally approved pesticides or herbicides may pursue damage claims against the manufacturers in state court.
The 7-to-2 decision was one of the court's most significant rulings on the pre-emptive effect of federal statutes. In unusually pointed terms, the majority rejected the Bush administration's view that lawsuits claiming manufacturers negligently designed, tested or manufactured their products are pre-empted by the Federal Insecticide, Fungicide and Rodenticide Act, the federal law that governs the registration and labeling of these products.
JONATHAN Swift is credited with affixing the label ''bubble'' to a stock price that far exceeded its economic value in a poem written in December 1720, just after the stock price of the South Sea Company tumbled. The last stanza read: ''The Nation too, too late will find/ Computing all their Cost and Trouble/ Directors Promises but Wind/ South Sea at best a mighty Bubble.''
Perhaps it is a tad late, but economists are rediscovering bubbles.
L. Dennis Kozlowski, the former chief executive of the conglomerate Tyco International, took the stand to declare his innocence at his retrial yesterday, a surprising reversal in strategy from his first trial, at which he did not testify.
As word spread early yesterday at the New York State Supreme Court in Lower Manhattan that Mr. Kozlowski was about to testify, the courtroom, often nearly empty, quickly filled with spectators. Mr. Kozlowski is on trial on larceny accusations and other charges.
Mexican regulators fined Ricardo B. Salinas Pliego, chairman of the TV Azteca network, one of his top lieutenants and the network itself a total of $2.3 million, saying they violated securities law, the company said Thursday.
In addition, people in the Mexican government close to the investigation said regulators here have asked the attorney general to file criminal charges against Mr. Salinas Pliego, accusing him of unlawful use of privileged information. The charges carry a prison term of two to seven years. The fines follow Securities and Exchange Commission charges of fraud filed against Mr. Salinas Pliego in January.
Merck's day in court has been delayed. In a joint filing yesterday, lawyers for Merck and the widow of a man who died after reportedly taking the Merck drug Vioxx asked a state judge in Alabama to postpone the lawsuit, which was scheduled to be the first Vioxx case to go to trial. Both sides expect the judge to agree to postpone the case, which is scheduled to begin on May 23.
A second trial, scheduled to begin in state court in Texas on May 31, may also be postponed. But W. Mark Lanier, the lawyer for the plaintiff in that case, said he expected the case to be the first to go to trial, in July.
Marvel Enterprises said yesterday that it had settled its legal battle with Stan Lee, its chairman emeritus and a co-creator of Marvel characters like Spider-Man and the Fantastic Four.
Mr. Lee sued the company in November 2002, arguing that it had failed to honor a contract promising 10 percent of profits from television and film productions like ''Spider-Man,'' ''X-Men'' and ''Hulk'' as well as from some related merchandise.
THE Wendy's fast-food chain, having been wrongly accused, now faces the task of rebuilding an image tainted by a woman's claim last month that she found a severed finger in her beef chili.
Marketing experts say the challenge is complicated by a certain lack of resolution: while the accuser, Anna Ayala, faces criminal charges for trying to defraud Wendy's, the origin of the finger she said she found is still not known.
The American International Group, the insurance giant under scrutiny for using transactions to improve its financial statements, will have to delay the filing of its annual 10-K report as it continues to wade through extensive accounting problems, people briefed on the continuing investigation said last night.
The company will announce before the stock market opens on Monday that it will reduce its net worth by a total of $2.7 billion to $2.9 billion, an increase of $1 billion to $1.2 billion from the company's earlier estimate of $1.7 billion, or 2 percent of shareholders' equity. A.I.G. is expected to release additional unaudited financial information on Monday, as well as an update on its internal review.
The United States trade representative will not immediately press for World Trade Organization action against China over widespread unlawful copying of patented and copyrighted products when it announces the results of an investigation on Friday, a United States executive informed of the decision said on Thursday.
The office of the trade representative, which monitors the United States' trade agreements, will instead place China on a ''priority watch'' list of countries that it says fail to adequately respect intellectual property rights and may be subject to future action, said the executive, who was involved in the investigation. He spoke on condition of anonymity, citing the sensitive nature of the announcement.
A new preliminary inquiry by Eliot Spitzer, the New York attorney general, is seeking credit data and other information from mortgage lenders that should offer regulators a clearer picture of whether discrimination is responsible for the higher interest rates that minority borrowers often pay.
The civil rights division of the attorney general's office has requested mortgage data, measures of creditworthiness and other risk-based pricing information in letters to eight lenders with substantial operations in New York, according to a person briefed on the inquiry. Citigroup, HSBC, Washington Mutual and Wells Fargo acknowledged the request yesterday and said in separate statements that they were cooperating.
CHICKEN LITTLE would feel at home listening to the political class in Europe as the French prepare to vote on the proposed European constitution.
A no vote on May 29 would create a ''political cataclysm,'' said Jacques Delors, a former president of the European Commission. Romano Prodi, the commission's president when the constitution was written, made Mr. Delors sound sanguine, saying, ''The problem won't be just a catastrophe for France, but the fall of Europe.''
Three of the retired Morgan Stanley executives campaigning for the ouster of Philip J. Purcell met secretly with Morgan Stanley board members late last week and proposed splitting the company in two, according to people briefed on the meeting.
The talks were a major concession by Morgan Stanley's board, which has previously spurned repeated requests by dissident executives to meet. The executives proposed that Morgan Stanley divide into two companies -- one catering to institutions like pension and mutual funds and the other to individual investors. That would spell the end of Mr. Purcell's vision of Morgan Stanley as a diversified financial services firm.
Here's a Newsweek cover from 100 years into the future: an aerial view of the United States with California split off from the mainland and floating in the Pacific. The headline: ''California Island: More popular than ever 62 years after the Big Quake.''
And here's Sports Illustrated 100 years hence: ''Hell Freezes Over! Cubs Win 2105 World Series.''
Barron's, the venerable financial magazine, has an unusual problem. People spend a long time reading it -- the average reader spends 2 hours and 12 minutes with it, to be exact. The problem is that a lot of prospective readers these days don't have 12 minutes, let alone 2 hours, to sit down with a magazine.
So Barron's is being redesigned to give readers a quicker way to see what's inside the magazine and let them re-enter later at their leisure. Edwin A. Finn Jr., Barron's editor and president, said that the new design, to appear May 16, was not caused by a sag in circulation, which has remained fairly steady at about 300,000. Rather, he said, Barron's wanted to keep readers by helping them navigate more quickly through the in-depth material.
Bad news is relative if you're an investor in the online retail giant Amazon.com.
Last Tuesday, Amazon reported its quarterly earnings after the close of the markets. In its three previous reports, Amazon presented its numbers to Wall Street and then watched its stock tumble between 12 percent and 15 percent over the next 24 hours.
It was an offer even the podfather could not refuse: the chance to be host of a radio program devoted solely to podcasts, or homemade radio shows formatted for digital audio players.
Adam Curry, a former MTV host who developed software that lets people automatically receive these programs on Apple's iPod and other players, will produce and be host of a four-hour program every weekday starting May 13 on Sirius Satellite Radio.
A Silicon Valley mystery has been solved.
The mystery involves a set of electronic commerce patents purchased, after heated bidding, in a dot-com bankruptcy auction by a Texas lawyer last December. They were acquired, it turns out, on behalf of the Novell Corporation, the giant software and computer services company, a company official acknowledged on Friday.
March was not a good month for Pat O'Brien.
First, Mr. O'Brien, the host of the syndicated celebrity gossip show ''The Insider,'' entered a rehabilitation center for alcohol abuse, leaving his anchor position. Around the same time, several sexually explicit voice-mail messages apparently made by Mr. O'Brien surfaced on blogs, making him instant fodder for late-night comics.
Alana K. Bassin, a partner at Bowman & Brooke, a products-liability law firm in Minneapolis, has a simple checklist for her business travels: a suitcase for her business suits, an attaché case for her legal papers and an infant seat for her daughter, Talia.
Just over a year ago, when Talia was 7 months old, Ms. Bassin brought her to a two-week trial in Galveston, Tex., so that she could stick to her nursing schedule. Since then, the pair has hit the road several times, and Ms. Bassin, who is about to give birth for a second time, plans to bring both children on business trips in the future.
The maker of the Power Ranger action figures will buy the creator of Pac-Man in a $1.7 billion deal to compete for a dwindling customer base.
The Bandai Company, which makes the Power Rangers figures, agreed to buy Namco, which produced Pac-Man, in a deal that would create Japan's second-biggest toy and game company, the two companies said Monday. The new entity, to be called Namco Bandai Holdings, would be second to Sega Sammy Holdings, the company created last year in a merger of a video game maker and a manufacturer of pachinko gambling machines.
Adding to concerns about the security of personal information, Time Warner yesterday reported the loss of computer backup tapes containing sensitive data, including the names and Social Security numbers of about 600,000 people. They include current and former employees, some of their dependents and beneficiaries, and even individuals who have simply provided services for the company.
Time Warner said the data, on 40 tapes in a container the size of a cooler, disappeared more than a month ago while being shipped to an offsite storage center.
Genetically modified rice could bring huge benefits to Chinese farmers, lowering their costs, improving harvest yields and greatly reducing the use of pesticides, according to a report published in the journal Science last week.
The study, conducted by American and Chinese scientists who have long backed the crops, comes as the Chinese government is deciding whether to approve the sale of genetically modified rice, which would make China the first nation to adopt biotechnology crops in one of the world's leading food staples.
Theodore J. Forstmann, the financier who has said that he will not raise a new last investment fund, made what was likely to be his last big bet yesterday by acquiring a private fitness company for $1.6 billion.
Mr. Forstmann's firm, Forstmann Little & Company, has agreed to buy 24 Hour Fitness Worldwide, the world's largest privately owned chain of fitness centers, executives with both companies said. The deal is expected to be announced today. The chain, based in San Ramon, Calif., has 345 clubs in 15 states with 2.8 million members, mostly on the West Coast, and another 15 clubs in Asia. Last year, the company had more than $1 billion in revenue.
After two private equity firms announced the deal yesterday to buy the Neiman Marcus Group for slightly more than $5 billion, shareholders expressed their disappointment that the firms would get all the company's assets -- even the credit card business. Investors were clearly hoping for a separate, additionally lucrative sale.
Neiman's Class A shares fell on yesterday's announcement, closing at $92.96, down $5.36. ''The shareholders were hoping for another payday,'' said one executive involved in the deal.
For accountants at PricewaterhouseCoopers, the audit of the American International Group has become a balancing act -- moving carefully to satisfy themselves and moving quickly to satisfy their client.
The auditors are at various A.I.G. units, reviewing the statements of a company coping with multiple investigations of its accounting. They are trying to make sure that they understand the transactions A.I.G. completed and that the accounting of the deals is correct -- for their protection as well as A.I.G.'s.
Despite growing evidence of an economic slowdown, the Federal Reserve is not about to ride to the rescue by keeping rates steady.
A big reason is that in a trend that has confounded the Fed, cheap money is almost as plentiful now as when it started raising rates last June.
One night last May, after two cars collided along a rural highway about 40 miles west of Tulsa -- killing one driver and seriously injuring the other -- firefighters from the nearby town of Foyil called for a medical helicopter.
But as the aircraft descended, they saw it was a helicopter operated by a rival company and not the one their dispatcher had summoned from Tulsa.
The Washington bureau chiefs at seven major news organizations are pressing the White House to curtail the use of background briefings, which administration officials regularly hold on the condition that the officials not be identified in news reports.
In an e-mail message sent on Monday, the bureau chiefs urged other Washington editors to object to such briefings as soon as the administration, executive agencies or legislators schedule them.
Heart doctors at the Cleveland Clinic, one of the nation's largest centers for cardiac care, have voted unanimously to severely curtail or even ban the clinic's use of the Johnson & Johnson drug Natrecor.
The final decision is in the hands of a clinic committee that is expected to review data at a meeting today. Natrecor, widely used as a treatment for heart failure, has been reported in two recent medical journal studies to increase kidney problems and death rates among patients. Last week, the company worked out a plan with federal drug regulators to cite such risks on its label.
An airport that was once worried about its future has become the latest battleground in the return of the direct flight.
Three decades ago, most Americans could fly nonstop to many places. But by the 1990's, big airlines often made passengers stop in, say, Chicago, Minneapolis or Dallas to get around the country.
The Cleveland Clinic gave an apparent reprieve to a controversial Johnson & Johnson heart failure treatment yesterday when a committee overruled more than four dozen of its cardiologists by deciding that the drug, Natrecor, would remain in use at the clinic.
The panel, composed of doctors from various disciplines, overruled the recommendation of about 50 members of the clinic's cardiovascular medicine department, who had voted last week to ban or severely restrict use of Natrecor after two studies in medical journals indicated that it increased the risk of kidney impairment and death.
The United States attorney in Boston is investigating Fidelity Investments, the mutual fund giant, as well as a number of Wall Street banks to determine whether the banks' brokers plied Fidelity traders with lavish gifts and decadent entertainment to try to win some of Fidelity's lucrative trading business, said two people involved in the investigation.
Federal prosecutors in Boston became interested in an inquiry begun in November by the Securities and Exchange Commission and NASD, when it became clear that ''sex and drugs'' were among the enticements offered to traders, the two people said.
TAX systems are like septic tanks: they need to be cleaned out every 10 years or so.
The last significant structural tax reform in the United States was in 1986, so we are long overdue for a thorough cleansing. Some economists have claimed that the changes in 1986 increased the economy's growth rate by as much as 1 percent in the years immediately afterward. But since then, virtually every piece of tax legislation introduced in Congress has added to the complexity and inefficiency of the tax system.
I.B.M. announced yesterday that it would lay off 10,000 to 13,000 workers, mostly in Europe, as it struggles to keep up its profits at a time when global competition in the technology business spreads beyond selling computers to providing services.
The cutbacks come after I.B.M. reported disappointing quarterly earnings last month and the price of its shares dropped. But I.B.M. portrayed the move as mainly an evolution in its strategy of globalizing its operations by moving back-office work like accounting and procurement to low-cost locations and pruning operations in high-cost and slower-growth markets like France, Germany and Italy.
The government has taken the first step toward a revival of the 30-year bond, an unexpected shift that could provide an important tool to grapple with the nation's troublesome budget deficit and its creaky pension system.
And for Wall Street, which has been clamoring for a revival of the bond almost since it was abandoned in 2001, a new Treasury security with a longer maturity than the current market benchmark -- the 10-year note -- could help the boom in bond trading that has bolstered many firms' profits in recent years.
Karl-Heinz Stiller might have felt entitled to a victory lap, right about now.
His company, Wincor Nixdorf, has completed a grueling five-year run during which it was sold to demanding American private equity investors, rebuilt from the ground up, and taken public in Germany's first major stock offering since 2001, after the Internet bubble burst.
The relentless rise in health care costs is causing states and businesses to fight over whose job it is to insure workers. And nearly two dozen states, struggling with the growing burden of providing public assistance to people with jobs but no insurance, are looking to shift more of the financial burden onto the workers' employers.
Last month, for example, Maryland, which spends roughly $350 million a year on health care for the uninsured, passed a bill requiring the state's very largest employers to spend at least 8 percent of their payrolls on health benefits for their workers. Lawmakers elsewhere, including Connecticut, are considering legislation that may also require some companies to provide coverage, either directly or by paying into a state fund.
Raymond V. Gilmartin resigned yesterday as chairman and chief executive of Merck, ending a troubled decade-long term during which Merck lost its place as the world's pre-eminent drug maker and was forced into a product recall that has clouded its future.
Merck, the third-largest American drug maker, named an insider, Richard T. Clark, 59, its head of manufacturing, as the new chief executive. Merck said the chairman's position would remain vacant for at least a year.
The publisher of Superman, Batman and Wonder Woman is getting a makeover. DC Comics, a division of Warner Brothers Entertainment, is unveiling a new logo today.
The new logo -- the letters DC encircled by a whirlpool-like ring with a single star -- will be used to brand DC Comics across all media, including comics, toys, television and film. The new look replaces the old logo -- the DC letters in a circle and bounded by four stars -- that has been on the covers of DC Comics since the mid-1970's.
Is it a drug in search of a disease, or simply an affliction in need of better publicity?
One of the afflicted is Peter Pagan. After suffering a severe brain injury in a fall, he would burst into tears at the slightest provocation, even when he was not feeling sad.
The maker of a novel computer memory chip has developed a new generation of its technology, pushing forward in the quest for chips that are smaller and denser, and thus less expensive for use in consumer electronics.
The company, Matrix Semiconductor of Santa Clara, Calif., is expected to announce on Tuesday that its approach -- storing data in an array of circuits stacked in four levels -- had yielded one-gigabit chips that are 10 percent smaller than its previous version and have twice the memory of the original 512-megabit chips.
Vonage, the Internet telephone company, is expected to announce formally today that it has raised $200 million in new private investments, one of the largest single rounds of venture capital financing in the last decade.
The size of the deal underscores the confidence of the lead investors, including several major Silicon Valley venture capital firms, that Vonage, a privately held company, can continue to thrive as an Internet telephone provider even as regional Bell companies and cable providers enter the business.
''Harvey Birdman'' is the sort of name you might hear David Letterman repeating as a non sequitur several times during ''The Late Show'' on CBS.
In fact, Mr. Birdman is of increasing relevance to Mr. Letterman and his NBC counterpart, Jay Leno. He is the protagonist of ''Harvey Birdman: Attorney at Law,'' a campy animated program about a superhero-turned-not-very-bright-lawyer. That show, which airs on the Cartoon Network during Mr. Letterman's time slot, and a suite of other irreverent, animated shows, make up a seven-hour programming block called ''Adult Swim.''
Robin Roberts, the news reader on ''Good Morning America'' on ABC since 2002, is getting new responsibilities on the program. The network is expected to announce today that she is being made a co-host of the program, which gives her a rank (and duties) equal to that of Charles Gibson and Diane Sawyer, who have been the hosts since early 1999.
The promotion of Ms. Roberts was described yesterday by two people who had been briefed on it but who insisted on anonymity because they were not authorized to disclose it.
The incident seemed alarming enough: a breach of a Cisco Systems network in which an intruder seized programming instructions for many of the computers that control the flow of the Internet.
Now federal officials and computer security investigators have acknowledged that the Cisco break-in last year was only part of a more extensive operation -- involving a single intruder or a small band, apparently based in Europe -- in which thousands of computer systems were similarly penetrated.
Cisco Systems, the largest maker of equipment for directing traffic on the Internet, reported Tuesday that third-quarter profits rose 16 percent, spurred by increased demand from telecommunications companies upgrading their networks.
The company, which is considered a bellwether in the corporate technology industry, had net income of $1.41 billion, or 21 cents a share, compared with net income of $1.21 billion, or 17 cents a share, a year earlier.
Quarterly profits at Toyota Motor plummeted 17 percent as the company plowed more money into an ambitious plan to increase its global market share.
Toyota's net profit fell to 290.7 billion yen ($2.75 billion) for the quarter that ended March 31, the company said Tuesday. Revenue, however, rose 4.2 percent to 4.88 trillion yen ($46.2 billion), as the company sold more of its cars and trucks.
United Airlines, which is operating in bankruptcy protection, received court permission yesterday to terminate its four employee pension plans, setting off the largest pension default in the three decades that the government has guaranteed pensions.
The ruling by Judge Eugene R. Wedoff of Federal Bankruptcy Court came after a lengthy hearing in a crowded Chicago courtroom, near where United is based.
The Chubb Corporation, one of the nation's largest property and casualty insurers, said yesterday that it had received a subpoena from federal prosecutors investigating its use of nontraditional insurance that can artificially enhance financial results.
Such policies are central to the multiple investigations into the insurance industry in general and into American International Group in particular.
Retailing start-ups like corner cafes and mom-and-pop bookstores can get a lot of mileage out of their antiestablishment aura. Customers love the idiosyncratic touches that set small shops apart from the chains, not to mention the allusions to third world cooperatives and the Amazon rain forest.
Besides, who can resist the spectacle of the little guy outwitting greedy corporate giants? David victorious over Goliath is a theme that runs throughout American business history.
The Eastman Kodak Company, which has struggled to make its name as synonymous with digital photography as it is with film, named Antonio M. Perez its next chief executive yesterday. Mr. Perez, who had been Kodak's president and chief operating officer, will take over on June 1.
The current chief executive, Daniel A. Carp, will remain as chairman until the end of the year, when Mr. Perez will assume that role as well. The chief operating officer's position will remain vacant.
''THIS week on 'How to Do It,' we're going to show you how to play the flute, how to split an atom, and how to irrigate the Sahara Desert,'' says the TV host in an old Monty Python skit. ''But first, here's Jackie to tell you all how to rid the world of all known diseases.''
''Well, first of all, become a doctor and discover a marvelous cure for something,'' says Jackie, ''so there'll never be any diseases ever again.''
At the close of a long, hot day sewing men's shirts, hundreds of young Cambodian women waited anxiously as their British boss jumped onto a cutting table with a bullhorn, worried that he would tell them they had lost their jobs.
But instead of delivering bad news, the manager, Adrian Ross, said he would be the host at a company picnic to celebrate the Cambodian New Year on April 15 at the advanced new factory his company had built down the road. ''It's been hard work this year,'' Mr. Ross said. ''Now it's time to have fun.''
The International Herald Tribune announced yesterday that Michael Oreskes, deputy managing editor of The New York Times, would become its executive editor.
Mr. Oreskes, 51, will move to Paris, where the paper is based, to take the post this summer. As deputy managing editor of The Times, he has been responsible for overseeing its online and television content and has supervised its relationship with The Herald Tribune, which has been fully owned by The New York Times Company since 2003.
Thomas Middelhoff, the German executive who abruptly left the helm of the media giant Bertelsmann three years ago, was named Thursday as chief of KarstadtQuelle, a German retailer struggling to right its flagging mail-order catalog business.
Mr. Middelhoff, 52, had been chairman of the nonexecutive supervisory board of KarstadtQuelle since June 2004, during which time the retailer sold holdings in DSF Deutsches Sport Fernsehen, a German TV sports channel, and Home Shopping Europe, to stem losses and reorganize 85 large department stores.
The grumpy old men just got grumpier. After more than a month of silence, a dissident group of retired Morgan Stanley executives described in greater detail their proposal to split the firm in two, in a further assault on the leadership of Philip J. Purcell.
But the plan, which has already been spurned by the Morgan Stanley board, carries with it two ambitious and uncertain assumptions. The first is the dissidents' assertion that five senior executives who resigned last month amid a management shake-up by Mr. Purcell will return to Morgan Stanley. The second is that shareholder support for the split will be strong enough either to force recalcitrant directors to agree to it, or to goad them into ousting Mr. Purcell as chief executive.
One week after the Ford Motor Company lost its investment-grade rating from Standard & Poor's, a second credit rating agency on Thursday also lowered its assessment of the automaker's debt, but to one step above junk status.
Also on Thursday, Ford's chief executive, William Clay Ford Jr., told company shareholders at their annual meeting that he would not accept any compensation from the company until profits from the automotive division improved.
Microsoft said Thursday that it would enter the consumer antivirus business as part of a subscription service that it will offer next year.
Microsoft said a companywide trial of the service, called Windows OneCare, would begin next week. The service will include virus and spyware protection as well as PC backup and performance-enhancing functions for Windows PC's.
The judge overseeing the criminal accounting fraud trial of the former HealthSouth chief executive Richard Scrushy dismissed two of the counts against him on Thursday.
But 36 others remain in the case, which could go to the jury as early as Monday. The remaining charges include mail fraud, wire fraud, securities fraud and conspiracy.
Strike threats by workers at United Airlines are a sign of frustration in the wake of wage and benefit cuts and the termination of their pension plans, the chief executive, Glenn F. Tilton, said yesterday.
In an interview, Mr. Tilton said he believed that United's employees knew walkouts would destroy the reorganization work done by the airline since it sought bankruptcy protection in December 2002.
IN Washington these days, complaining about China has become standard operating procedure. The Bush administration calls on China to allow its currency to rise and Congress talks of punishment if China does not do so.
Be careful what you wish for.
Jianping Qu was 35 years old when he arrived in the United States a decade ago, a veteran of the rough and tumble of China's marketplace. He has said he left after allegations of fraud in a real estate deal led to a 90-day ''detention'' by the authorities in Shanghai.
By 2004, Mr. Qu (pronounced Chu) was a wealthy man. He had accumulated at least $100 million in cash in his personal accounts and another $300 million in the accounts of his Silicon Valley companies, in which he is both the dominant shareholder and chief executive. In a court filing in his divorce in 2003, Mr. Qu gave his annual salary as $40.1 million, making him one of the highest-paid chief executives in America.
New drugs are offering new hope to people with kidney cancer, which until now has mostly defied treatment, doctors said here over the weekend.
''We've reached the point in the illness where the door is open, so to speak,'' said Dr. Ronald M. Bukowski, a kidney cancer specialist at the Cleveland Clinic.
The shades in the small office were drawn tight on a bright afternoon last week, as three men huddled around a small television monitor.
They were watching a seven-minute clip assembled from the pilot ''My Name Is Earl,'' a half-hour comedy starring Jason Lee about a ne'er-do-well who wins a lottery and vows to make amends to everyone he's ever offended.
There is little love lost between cable providers and phone companies -- not in the marketplace and definitely not over the airwaves.
As phone companies negotiate with broadcast television networks this month to buy commercial time before the fall season, they are in a conflict with cable providers over what many see as a more valuable tool: the ability to advertise in local markets.
For Ruth Blatt, there's nothing better than having clothes that can do double duty. ''I like doing yoga, training with my personal trainer and spinning,'' said Ms. Blatt, a mother, doctoral candidate and fitness buff, in a recent visit to a fitness studio, Vie Fitness and Spa, in Ann Arbor, Mich.
But Ms. Blatt, 31, likes to combine those workouts with seeing her friends or working at her local coffee shop. And she doesn't always want to change her clothes. ''I don't want to be seen wearing an old torn sweatshirt that should be out of circulation. I want to look nice.''
Facing its most challenging new prime-time season in two decades, NBC is expected to unveil today a schedule of freshman programs that will try to reinvigorate a comedy heritage gone fallow. And it will rely even more heavily on its reality franchise ''The Apprentice,'' which will probably run in two separate editions next fall, one starring Donald Trump, the other starring Martha Stewart.
And in a somewhat surprising move, NBC plans to cancel the fourth entry in its hugely successful ''Law and Order'' franchise, ''Trial by Jury.''
With demand growing for advertising space on the Internet, CNN.com plans to enhance and reorganize its Web offerings, adding free features that it hopes will attract both viewers and ad dollars.
In June, CNN will make video clips free on its Web site for the first time, dropping a $4.95 fee, said Susan Grant, executive vice president of CNN News Services. Other major news sites, including the ones run by Fox News and CBS News, already provide free video; CNN and ABC News had chosen to make it a subscription service.
THE entry in the Zagat guide made the restaurant sound affordable. So did the menu posted near the door. Entrees were about $15. Even with wine, spending less than $80 for two people seemed like no problem.
But once you are seated, the waiter comes by and asks if he may bring you some San Pellegrino sparkling water. Whenever your glass is half-empty, he fills it, and he always replaces a finished bottle with a new one, at $10 apiece. By the time dinner is over, the bill has crept toward $130, all because you did not want to seem too chintzy to order a little fizzy water.
Martin R. Morrison, president of Fare Audits, a travel-consulting firm far removed from the murky world of payola that plagues international business, heard that bribes were tax-deductible in Germany. ''Am I the only one who's naïve about what goes on during foreign business trips?'' he asked.
Probably not, but American business executives do walk a fine line in doing deals overseas. On the one hand, both the United States and Europe are cracking down on corporations that make illegal payments to foreign officials. On the other, companies that do not play along in the estimated $1 trillion-a-year game of oiling the wheels of contract negotiations can put themselves at a competitive disadvantage.
Joe Beane reserved a Dodge Intrepid from Dollar Rent a Car in Fort Lauderdale, Fla., recently. Or so he thought.
''At the rental counter, the associate aggressively tried to sell me an upgrade to a convertible for an additional $20 a day,'' Mr. Beane said. ''When I refused, she said the company had no full-size cars available and that I would have to wait for a car to be returned.''
Toyota Motor is set to announce Tuesday that it plans to build a gas-electric hybrid version of its top-selling Camry sedan, people briefed on the company's plans said on Monday.
The hybrid Camry, to be built at Toyota's Georgetown, Ky., plant, would be the company's first gas-electric vehicle to be produced in the United States.
The New York Times announced yesterday that it would offer a new subscription-based service on its Web site, charging users an annual fee to read its Op-Ed and news columnists, as the newspaper seeks ways to capitalize on the site's popularity.
Most material on the Web site, NYTimes.com, will remain free to users, The Times said, but columnists from The Times and The International Herald Tribune will be available only to users who sign up for TimesSelect, which will cost $49.95 a year. The service will also include access to The Times's online archives, as well as other features.
New federal traffic safety statistics released Monday suggest that pickup truck occupants who do not wear seat belts are at a greater risk of dying in traffic accidents than unbelted occupants in cars.
Previous research has shown that people in pickup trucks wear their seat belts less frequently than car occupants. But the new numbers also show for the first time that seat belts play a more critical role in preventing accident deaths in pickup trucks than in cars.
The head of Time Warner's consumer book division announced his resignation yesterday, surprising employees who have seen the publisher rebound after being put up for sale just two years ago.
Laurence J. Kirshbaum, the chairman and chief executive of the Time Warner Book Group, said in a memo to employees that he would step down at the end of the year. He will be succeeded by David Young, who is the chairman and chief executive of the publisher's British division, Time Warner Book Group U.K.
Allan Elias, a vice president at a family-owned clothing maker in New York's garment district, had what he called ''a very serious problem.'' Dillard's Inc., the big department store chain, had withheld thousands of dollars from payments for clothes he had shipped. He did not want to lose an important client, but money was money. His letter to Dillard's was almost pleading.
''Dillard's is a valued customer,'' he wrote, ''and we are anxious to continue and grow the Dillard's business, but the excess deductions of $222,061.25 that have been taken are simply unacceptable.'' Altogether, he said, Dillard's had deducted 51 percent from the cost of five months' orders, much more than they had agreed upon.
A survey of the world's biggest companies shows that the turnover of chief executives at American companies has held relatively steady for the last few years, while the pace of management departures has accelerated overseas.
The findings suggest that increased shareholder activism and a new vigilance among corporate boards in the United States has had only a muted impact on top executive turnover. In Europe and most of Asia, boards were generally quicker to remove an underperforming manager.
Senator Ted Stevens wanted to know just how much the Internet had turned private lives into open books. So the senator, a Republican from Alaska and the chairman of the Senate Commerce Committee, instructed his staff to steal his identity.
''I regret to say they were successful,'' the senator reported at a hearing he held last week on data theft.
It is impossible not to notice the eight-foot bear in William E. Greehey's office.
The story of how the stuffed grizzly ended up here says as much about Mr. Greehey's hunting trip in British Columbia in 1982 as it does about his attitude as chief executive of Valero Energy: aggressive, risk-prone and endowed with self-confidence -- or, his critics say, an oversize ego.
As public wireless networks increase, it's easier than ever to stay connected to the Internet when roaming the land with a laptop, but there are still times when the search for a Wi-Fi hot spot runs cold. Sony's new Vaio T-series laptops can keep you surfing, thanks to their ability to catch a wave on Cingular's wireless Edge data network.
The Vaio T-series machines (which include the VGN-T350P/L running Windows XP Professional and the VGN-T350/L with Windows XP Home) weigh slightly more than three pounds. They come with a 10.6-inch screen and have Sony's SmartWi program, which lets you quickly search for and select the best available wireless connection.
Fresh details have emerged in court papers about the inner workings of a private offshore company that had been paying big bonuses to top executives of the insurance giant American International Group.
The company, Starr International, awarded tens of millions of dollars in payouts over a two-year period at a time when it was ineligible to do so under its own operating laws, according to the court papers, which cite internal A.I.G. documents.
Lexus drivers reported the fewest problems with their new vehicles, while owners of cars like Volvos, Porsches and Saabs on average had much more to complain about, according to the latest survey from J.D. Power & Associates. The study also found that owners were significantly more impressed with their Nissans and Hummers after giving the brands dismal ratings in last year's survey.
Lexus, which is owned by Toyota, led the J.D. Power study for the fifth year in a row. Lexus was followed by Jaguar, owned by Ford, and BMW, which took the third spot. The worst performers in the study were Land Rover and Mazda, both owned by Ford, and Suzuki.
Seven weeks after negotiating their exit from the Walt Disney Company with talk of building a ''fully integrated media company,'' Harvey and Bob Weinstein, the brothers who founded Miramax Films, have made their first strategic deal -- an acquisition fund and distribution arrangement with Rainbow Media Holdings, the programming subsidiary of Cablevision Systems Corporation.
The Weinstein brothers will be given an undisclosed sum of money to acquire low-budget films for distribution mainly on DVD and television, and their company will become the sole home-video distributor and overseas sales agent for Rainbow's IFC Films unit. Production credits for IFC Films include ''The Ballad of Jack and Rose.'' It was the theatrical distributor of ''My Big Fat Greek Wedding'' in 2002 and, with Lions Gate, ''Fahrenheit 9/11'' last year.
Univision Communications, the largest owner of television networks aimed at Hispanic viewers, announced ambitious plans yesterday to expand programming into genres long popular with its English-language counterparts and competitors.
At a high-energy presentation at Lincoln Center, part of what the advertising industry calls upfront week, executives of the flagship Univision network of Univision Communications said they would introduce a late-night talk show, to be called ''¡Ay, Qué Noche!,'' or ''Oh, What a Night!,'' and a Sunday morning discussion program from Washington, to be called ''Punto de Encuentro con Jorge Ramos,'' or ''Meeting Point with Jorge Ramos.'' Mr. Ramos is a longtime Univision news anchor.
Germany inched closer to American-style corporate governance on Wednesday with the approval by Chancellor Gerhard Schröder's cabinet of a law that would require public companies to disclose the salaries of their most senior executives.
The law, which is subject to approval by Parliament, would require companies to list salaries and bonuses for all members of their management boards, the collective bodies that run German corporations.
L-3 Communications, a military technology company, is in advanced talks to buy the Titan Corporation, the military contractor, for roughly $1.8 billion, executives involved in the negotiations said yesterday.
The talks come less than a year after Lockheed Martin broke off a deal to buy Titan because of charges that Titan was involved in a foreign bribery scheme. Titan has since pleaded guilty and paid $28.5 million to settle the criminal and civil charges.
The yield on the benchmark 10-year Treasury note went below 4.10 percent yesterday for the first time since February, a move that could confound the Federal Reserve's effort to slow economic growth. At the same time, however, the rally in Treasuries appears to reflect a decline in inflationary fears.
That view was given at least one day of support yesterday with the report that the core Consumer Price Index, which excludes food and energy costs, was unchanged in April. Analysts had forecast an increase of 0.2 percent.
As federal prosecutors sought on Wednesday to portray Richard M. Scrushy as a ''pied piper'' who led more than a dozen executives at HealthSouth to a sweeping $2.7 billion accounting fraud, defense lawyers pointed to another HealthSouth executive as the ''big rat'' responsible for the wrongdoing.
Employing a folksy and colorful Southern style that he has used throughout this nearly four-month criminal trial, Jim Parkman, one of the defense lawyers, told the jury in closing arguments that Mr. Scrushy was a victim of a far-ranging conspiracy by his underlings. Mr. Parkman even displayed a poster-size cartoon of a rat with a piece of cheese to attack the credibility of one of the government's main witnesses, William T. Owens, a former HealthSouth chief financial officer who testified that Mr. Scrushy was behind the fraud.
Morgan Stanley suffered another legal setback yesterday as a Florida jury ordered it to pay $850 million in punitive damages to the financier Ronald O. Perelman, who contended he was defrauded by the investment bank in a 1998 deal.
The decision brings to $1.45 billion the sum owed to Mr. Perelman and casts more unflattering light on Morgan Stanley's reputation at a time that it is fighting a punishing campaign by eight retired executives who are calling for the ouster of Philip J. Purcell, its chief executive.
Edward M. Gramlich, one of two Democrats on the Federal Reserve Board, said on Wednesday that he would resign at the end of August.
Mr. Gramlich, who is 65, joined the Fed in 1997. He said he would become a professor at the University of Michigan and had plans to write books on the economics of airlines and on low-income housing.
The chairman of CBS, Leslie Moonves, announced yesterday that he had canceled the Wednesday edition of ''60 Minutes,'' a six-year-old spinoff of the Sunday evening staple.
The most visible result of Mr. Moonves's decision is the reassignment of Dan Rather, a full-time correspondent on the weekday edition of ''60 Minutes,'' to the Sunday program. Mr. Rather, whose contract does not expire until late 2006, said yesterday that his transition to the new job would begin immediately.
With corporate greed and boardroom scandals long in the headlines, entrepreneurs are swiftly replacing corporate titans as America's business idols. And to cash in on that luster, a host of new television and radio shows, and even an Internet television network, are tracking their ups and downs, advising them on ways to revitalize their struggling start-ups and even setting them up in contests for an investment pot of gold.
Whatever their slant, the new programs all zero in on ordinary folk who have caught the entrepreneurial bug. The producers seek big audiences by playing to the dream many Americans harbor of chucking their jobs and striking out on their own.
FOR several years, technology pundits have predicted the death of the palmtop computer. ''This is the cellphone age,'' they say. ''Who's going to carry around a separate gadget just to look up names and numbers?''
But for the same several years, PalmOne (formerly Palm Computing) has had the same answer: ''We're not dead yet!''
Inflation slowed in April from its fast pace in March, easing fears that the country might be headed toward a bout of surging prices even as the economy was slowing.
Prices still rose substantially last month. Energy prices pushed the Consumer Price Index up 0.5 percent after a 0.6 percent jump in March, the Labor Department reported. This pushed overall inflation in the last 12 months to 3.5 percent, the fastest clip since November.
SEVEN years ago, two financiers who were among the most respected and feared in America sat down to make a deal that turned out to be disastrous for almost everyone involved.
Everyone, that is, except for the men most directly involved. Long after the public investors toted up their losses, Ronald O. Perelman and Albert J. Dunlap are doing fine. The biggest loser appears to be an investment bank that lost a lot of money financing the deal and now must pay much more to Mr. Perelman.
Like thousands of young Spaniards, Rafael Matito left his home village for Madrid 18 months ago, lured by one of Europe's most thriving capitals. After landing a job as a computer instructor, he and his girlfriend set about achieving the Spanish dream: buying their own home.
''We weren't looking for a villa or anything close to it,'' Mr. Matito, 28, said. ''We just wanted one or two rooms.''
Looked across the room at Babbo recently and figured that the man and woman splitting an expensive bottle of wine worked on Wall Street? Good assumption. Did you further guess that they were investment bankers? You may need to expand your portfolio of stereotypes.
They just may have been the new face of Wall Street, the newly empowered -- and often newly rich -- compliance lawyer. They are often the only people standing between their investment firms and a lethal blow from the government, and their status is assured and growing.
At the Electronics Entertainment Expo in Los Angeles last week, the demonstration booth for Nintendo seemed like an island of innocence amid the retorts of digitized gunfire.
While most game publishers showed sequels, sports simulations and shooting games based on grim tropes such as gang violence and World War II, Nintendo was promoting, among other games, Nintendogs. It lets players raise and train virtual pets on the Nintendo DS, the dual-screen hand-held game machine released last year.
Five years ago, when Joseph V. Tripodi was the chief marketing officer for Seagram's spirits and wines, he spent lengthy lunches talking shop with ad agency executives.
Now he is more likely to eat tuna sandwiches at his desk.
The development of a permanent successor to Dan Rather on the ''CBS Evening News'' has been shrouded in secrecy, but a meeting last Tuesday at the headquarters of the network's parent company, Viacom, suggests that CBS is canvassing opinions from people well outside the news division.
One of the six attendees was Terry Wood, who developed the ''Dr. Phil'' talk show and ''The Insider,'' a celebrity news program, and who now supervises those programs as an executive at Paramount Television and King World Productions, both Viacom divisions. Ms. Wood, in a high-profile flourish of corporate synergy, was responsible for the recent CBS prime-time special in which Dr. Phil (Phillip McGraw) interviewed Pat O'Brien, the host of ''The Insider,'' about his treatment for substance abuse. She is a close associate of Leslie Moonves, the chairman of CBS.
KPRC-AM, a small talk radio station in Houston, has suspended ''Newsweek on Air,'' a syndicated hourlong program, in reaction to Newsweek magazine's report, now retracted, that a military investigation found that interrogators at Guantánamo Bay, Cuba, flushed a Koran down a toilet.
''I subscribe to Newsweek,'' said Ken Charles, program director at KPRC, which is part of the Clear Channel Radio division of Clear Channel Communications. ''I just want to hear what they're fully going to put in place to prevent this sort of thing from happening again.''
IN the spring of 1712, the British essayist Joseph Addison rambled from pub to parlor seeking the pulse of his countrymen regarding rumors (false, it turned out) that the king of France, Louis XIV, had died. The St. James coffeehouse, Addison reported in The Spectator, was ''in a Buzz of Politics.''
In the 18th century, ''buzz'' was part of what social theorists called the emerging -- and powerful -- bourgeois public sphere. In the 21st century, the buzz is in the blogosphere.
Youngsters who want to buy adult video games may have run up against a higher authority. Last week, Best Buy agreed to strengthen and publicize its efforts to keep minors from buying violent or sexually explicit video games after the company was pressured by the Christian Brothers Investment Services, which manages assets for Roman Catholic organizations.
The store's policy threatens disciplinary action against clerks who fail to check the ages of shoppers who look as if they may be under 21. It also permits the use of mystery shoppers -- spies, in other words -- to check whether clerks are observing the rules.
Newsweek said yesterday that it would tightly limit the use of unnamed sources in the wake of a retracted report about a Koran being flushed down a toilet at Guantánamo Bay, Cuba.
The magazine's two top editors, or other senior editors they designate, must approve articles with unidentified sources, Richard M. Smith, Newsweek's editor in chief, wrote in a letter to readers that appeared on its Web site and will run in the magazine this week.
After three years of unemployment, Allen Gruenhut finally landed a job as director of human resources for a company in the stone business on Long Island. His age, 53, worked against him in his long hunt for work, he contends, and so did the six-figure salary he earned at his last job, in banking.
''They would not take me seriously at job interviews when I said I would be happy with a lower salary,'' Mr. Gruenhut said.
Rebecca Palmer, who just graduated from Wichita State University, did not have to look for a job. The job found her.
Last March, the Cessna Finance Corporation called her to offer a position as a sales administrator in its international division. ''It was very easy,'' said Ms. Palmer, 23. ''They had three positions that opened up at the same time.''
The pirate statue had 14 days to leave Massapequa, N.Y. And leave it did.
The owner of the six-foot-tall resin figure recently took it to the QuikDrop store on Long Island to have it photographed and put up for auction on eBay for 14 days. An online bidder from Utah paid $750 and the store's workers packed it and were preparing to send it last night.
David A. Stockman, the former Reagan budget director who founded a buyout fund in 1999 to invest in Rust Belt companies, has handed control of the fund, Heartland Industrial Partners, over to his partners.
The move comes as the centerpiece of Heartland's investment portfolio, Collins & Aikman, a Michigan auto parts supplier, struggles with bankruptcy and an internal investigation.
Officials of the Food and Drug Administration and the Guidant Corporation met yesterday to discuss a company defibrillator that has partly or totally failed in 26 cases because of an electrical flaw, including an instance in March that involved the death of a college student.
The meeting followed the disclosure that Guidant had not informed doctors for three years about a design flaw in the implantable defibrillator, known as a Ventak Prizm 2 Model 1861, or told them that it had changed its manufacturing process in 2002 to fix it.
Jurors in the federal trial of Richard M. Scrushy, the health care entrepreneur accused of securities fraud and lying to investigators, signaled on Tuesday that they were having trouble reaching a verdict.
The conflict among the jurors, who have deliberated for four days, seemed to heighten the chance of a mistrial in the case.
After construction workers finish plastering a replica of the Arc de Triomphe and buffing the imitation streets of Hollywood, Paris and Amsterdam, a giant new shopping theme park here will proclaim itself the world's largest shopping mall.
The South China Mall -- a jumble of Disneyland and Las Vegas, a shoppers' version of paradise and hell all wrapped in one -- will be nearly three times the size of the massive Mall of America in Minnesota. It is part of yet another astonishing new consequence of the quarter-century economic boom here: the great malls of China.
The street vendor looked both ways before he whispered, ''I have the real ones in my car, down the street.'' He left and brought back what he initially claimed were the latest Louis Vuitton handbags, hidden in a black plastic trash bag. ''I should get $200, but for you, I'll make it $180,'' he said. The vendor, at the corner of 59th Street and Fifth Avenue, near the Plaza Hotel, was insulted when the deal, for a cheap imitation of the real thing, was turned down.
''But these are the real copies!'' he argued.
Neal Shapiro, the president of NBC News since 2001, has told his superiors at the network in recent days that he would like to leave his post, two senior executives at NBC Universal said yesterday.
Though the request was characterized as coming at Mr. Shapiro's initiative, it comes just weeks after Jeff Zucker, president of the NBC Universal Television Group, helped engineer the dismissal of Tom Touchet, the executive producer of the ''Today'' show, in response to that program's rapidly falling ratings lead over its principal rival, ''Good Morning America'' on ABC.
The New York attorney general, Eliot Spitzer, and the New York Insurance Department are planning to file a civil complaint against the insurance giant American International Group; its former chairman and chief executive, Maurice R. Greenberg; and its former chief financial officer, Howard I. Smith, people briefed on Mr. Spitzer's plans said yesterday.
The complaint, they said, would accuse those named of involvement in improper accounting that allowed A.I.G. to make its financial position look stronger than it actually was.
In a deal that would create one of Europe's first big cross-border financial powerhouses, Unicredito Italiano and the HVB Group of Germany are discussing a merger, executives involved in the discussions said on Friday. The deal could be valued at 16 billion euros, or about $20 billion.
Any deal is far from guaranteed, one executive cautioned, and not expected to be announced before next week, if at all. The executive, however, characterized the talks as being in advanced stages.
Even as it publicly presses China to let its currency rise in value, the Bush administration has quietly softened a crucial demand.
In a calculated shift, administration officials have stopped demanding that China let its currency, the yuan, float freely against other major currencies.
The success stories of weight-loss surgery have been numerous and widely reported. Dangerously overweight patients -- both the famous and the unknown -- have lost hundreds of pounds, shown in before and after pictures. Many overcame life-threatening weight-related diseases.
And as demand soared for new types of weight-loss surgery, known as bariatric surgery, hundreds of general surgeons took quick courses and started performing the procedures. The number of doctors rose rapidly, to more than 1,300 now from a few hundred in the early 1990's.
Matthew Khalil goes to the movies about once a month, down from five or six times just a few years ago. Mr. Khalil, a senior at the University of California, Los Angeles, prefers instead to watch old movies and canceled television shows on DVD.
He also spends about 10 hours a week with friends playing the video game Halo 2. And he has to study, which means hours on the Internet and reading at least a book a week.
India excels at polishing diamonds as tiny as a hundredth of a carat. Masters of this craft in Antwerp, Belgium, and in Tel Aviv excel at handling diamonds of a carat or more.
But pushing into the broad middle as the newest diamond power is China, a nation long enamored of jade that ignored diamonds for much of its half century of communist rule.
If the housing market has become a bubble, as increasing numbers of economists warn, would the Federal Reserve try to deflate it?
The idea runs counter to a deep-seated view at the central bank, which refused to puncture the stock market bubble of the 1990's and continues to view its main job as preventing inflation rather than influencing the prices of stocks, bonds or real estate.
Earlier this month, Michael Neeley, a real estate broker in this leafy, upscale suburb, closed on the sale of a contemporary ranch house. A few days later, the sellers of that house bought another, larger ranch house.
Then, in a chain reaction, the sellers of the larger house closed on a $900,000 four-bedroom new colonial house. Mr. Neeley had a stake in all three deals, as well as the sale of two more homes, both for prices well above $1 million. In less than two weeks, he said he cleared nearly $98,000 in commissions, after splitting with other brokers and his firm.
For Randy D. Robason, a former tax partner at Arthur Andersen, news that the Supreme Court had thrown out the accounting firm's nearly three-year-old conviction was too little and too late.
''You feel better for a second, then you realize what was lost as a result of the government's action,'' Mr. Robason said. ''There's really not much else you can say.''
The American International Group, the insurance giant whose accounting practices are under investigation by federal and state regulators, released its long-awaited restatement yesterday, reducing its profits by nearly $4 billion over five years. It laid much of the blame for the accounting problems at the feet of its former chief executive, Maurice R. Greenberg, and its former chief financial officer, Howard I. Smith.
In its annual financial report, the company reduced its 2004 profit, by 12 percent, or $1.32 billion, earning $9.73 billion rather than the $11.1 billion it reported in February. A.I.G. also increased its reserves for asbestos and environmental claims by $850 million before taxes in 2004. In total, A.I.G. reduced its net income for four of the last five years and lowered its net worth by $2.26 billion, or 2.7 percent. A.I.G.'s net worth at the end of 2004 was $83 billion.
Lisa Morowitz, a longtime union coordinator, knows the taste of defeat.
She spends her days trying to organize Comcast cable workers. But not only are the workers declining to sign up, they have in many cases voted to end existing union ties.
At the Ferrara Pan Candy Company, confectioners of everything from gummy bears to red hots, rail cars used to deliver three million pounds of sugar a week to its bustling plant just outside America's candy capital here.
Today, the trains bring only half as much, barely enough to fill the factory's 65-foot sugar silos. That is largely because Ferrara, in an effort to avoid the high cost of government-protected American sugar, has been moving some of its century-old operations to Canada and Mexico.
Manufacturing is weakening, but housing is thriving. The prices of raw materials are rising more slowly.
Economic and industry reports issued yesterday sketched out an uneven patchwork of performance, with different sectors blowing hot and cold. They added up to an overall economic picture that still shows an economy growing at a strong pace but not so fast that inflation could creep substantially higher.
Citigroup, which has been disposing of its noncore assets, is in talks with Legg Mason about a possible sale of its asset management unit, according to two executives who have been briefed on the discussions.
The talks, which the executives say are at an advanced stage, reflect a growing dedication on Citigroup's part to focus on its distribution businesses, like consumer banking and retail brokerage, rather than divisions like asset management that develop and manage funds for retail and institutional investors.
Wal-Mart, seeking additional ways to burnish its tarnished image, is turning to a new realm: reality TV.
For the first time, Wal-Mart Stores is becoming a major sponsor of a reality television show, by signing a branded-entertainment agreement with ABC for ''The Scholar,'' a summer series that begins a six-week run on Monday night. Wal-Mart will be woven into the plots of episodes of the show, which is centered on a competition among 10 high school seniors from across the country for a grand prize of a full college scholarship, valued at $250,000, covering tuition and expenses.
Norah Jones fans who wanted to see the singer perform live last summer had little trouble finding tickets. Although she was touring to promote the platinum-selling album ''Feels Like Home,'' Ms. Jones sold an average of only two-thirds of the tickets available for each show, according to Pollstar, which tracks the pop concert business.
She was not the only artist staring out at empty seats. For Incubus, a rock band that had done well in 2003, ''sales were brutal,'' according to Randy Phillips, chief executive of AEG Live, the promoter that booked most of the dates. Even Simon and Garfunkel, whose reunion was the sixth-highest-selling tour in 2003, took in about half as much money a show last year. ''Last summer,'' Mr. Phillips said, ''was a disaster.''
Steven P. Jobs is preparing to take an unprecedented gamble by abandoning Apple Computer's 14-year commitment to chips developed by I.B.M. and Motorola in favor of Intel processors for his Macintosh computers, industry executives informed of the decision said Sunday.
The move is a chesslike gambit in a broader industry turf war that pits the traditional personal computer industry against an emerging world of consumer electronics focused on the digital home.
Inside the Hyatt Regency in Dearborn, Mich., Rick Wagoner, chief executive of General Motors, and other top G.M. officials were meeting on the morning of April 17 with union leaders from around the country.
Outside, a throng of reporters staked out the front and back exits. A black Cadillac sedan and a GMC Yukon sport utility were parked at the back exit, waiting, it appeared, for someone important. Just before lunchtime, a security guard stuck his head out the door and flashed a thumbs up. The two vehicles roared off, swooped around the hotel to a third, locked exit, and collected Mr. Wagoner, executing a perfect media head fake.
Loopholes in the federal pension law allowed United Airlines to treat its pension fund as solid for years, when in fact it was dangerously weakening, according to a new analysis by the agency that guarantees pensions. That analysis is scheduled to be presented at a Senate Finance Committee hearing today.
A second report, by the comptroller general, found that most companies that operate pension funds are using the same loopholes. Those loopholes give companies ways -- all perfectly legal -- to make their pension plans look healthier than they really are, reducing the amount of money the companies must contribute.
A former senior executive of the General Re Corporation, John Houldsworth, plans to plead guilty this week to federal criminal charges of helping the insurer American International Group doctor its books, according to Mr. Houldsworth's lawyer and prosecutors conducting a wide-ranging investigation of abuses in the insurance industry.
The Securities and Exchange Commission and the Justice Department also said yesterday that Mr. Houldsworth, who was fired yesterday by General Re, would cooperate with law enforcement authorities as they investigate and seek to prosecute other executives involved in fraudulent transactions. His guilty plea would be the first from a major figure in the inquiry.
Gerardo Luviano is looking for somebody to rent his Social Security number.
Mr. Luviano, 39, obtained legal residence in the United States almost 20 years ago. But these days, back in Mexico, teaching beekeeping at the local high school in this hot, dusty town in the southwestern part of the country, Mr. Luviano is not using his Social Security number. So he is looking for an illegal immigrant in the United States to use it for him -- providing a little cash along the way.
Nine years ago, the Navy set out to build a new guided missile for its 21st-century ships. Fiascoes followed. In a test firing, the missile melted its on-board guidance system. ''Incredibly,'' an Army review said, ''the Navy ruled the test a success.''
Recently, the Navy rewrote the contract and put out another one, with little to show for the money it already spent. The bill has come to almost $400 million, five times the original budget.
Jayne Atwell describes herself as a ''G.M. gypsy,'' a name General Motors workers have for people who have been shuffled from plant to plant over the years as the company has closed factories and cut its labor force.
''I've had five plants in the last 10 years and I'm still hanging in there,'' said Ms. Atwell, 42, who now builds dashboards at the G.M. Flint Truck Assembly plant here.
Investors are showing signs of losing interest in Chinese stocks just as investment banks are preparing a long list of Chinese initial public offerings. That combination could make it hard to sell all the shares coming to market and could slow China's efforts to privatize its state-owned industries.
Delays in Chinese initial public offerings could also set back big banks like Citigroup, Deutsche Bank, Goldman Sachs, HSBC, Merrill Lynch, Morgan Stanley and UBS. China has become the world's second-largest generator of investment banking fees for such offerings, ahead of Europe but behind the United States. All of these banks have been successful lately in winning the right to sponsor such offerings, most of them done in Hong Kong.
Whew.
Hedge funds, which had been buffeted in early May by talk of huge losses tied to General Motors securities, managed to end the month with modest gains, according to firms that track the funds' performance.
No man is an island. But Peter Rost is getting close.
Dr. Rost, a vice president for marketing at Pfizer with a history of corporate whistle-blowing, has for the last year publicly criticized the pharmaceutical industry over the price of drugs. Along the way, Dr. Rost has become increasingly isolated at Pfizer, the world's largest drug company.
Perhaps more than most corporations, Citigroup knows the perils of moving personal data.
In February last year, a magnetic tape with information on about 120,000 Japanese customers of its Citibank division disappeared while being shipped by truck from a data management center in Singapore. The tape held names, addresses, account numbers and balances. It has never turned up.
''Tell about the funny cars that you had to fill up with fossil fuels,'' says the 6-year-old, wriggling on her grandfather's knee. ''No, no,'' her brother chimes in. ''Tell the one about the phones that you had to leave plugged into the wall every night!''
Their mother, working the holographic display, smiles. ''Dad, you really want to blow their minds?'' she asks. ''Tell 'em about recording tape.''
IAC/InteractiveCorp, controlled by Barry Diller, said yesterday that it had agreed to sell its 5.4 percent stake in Vivendi Universal Entertainment for about $3.4 billion, ending a fractious partnership and allowing Mr. Diller to focus on his Internet businesses.
Vivendi Universal Entertainment is part of NBC Universal, which is 8o percent owned by General Electric and 20 percent owned by Vivendi Universal. NBC Universal is putting up roughly $900 million to buy Mr. Diller's stake in the entertainment unit, which includes cable networks, Universal Pictures and other assets. The rest of the money is coming from Vivendi Universal, and the deal resolves its legal dispute with Mr. Diller over tax liability issues.
It all began with the olive. Nearly 20 years ago, American Airlines, in the face of competition, made the first cost-cutting move -- eliminating one olive from each salad it served its passengers.
But what began as a gradual decline in amenities at the big airlines has turned into the biggest attack ever on costs, particularly in coach class.
Dozens had died and more than 100 patients had suffered serious heart problems by March 1998 after taking Propulsid, a popular medicine for heartburn. Infants, given the drug to treat acid reflux, seemed particularly at risk. Federal officials told Propulsid's manufacturer, Johnson & Johnson, that the drug might have to be banned for children, or even withdrawn altogether. Instead, the government and the company negotiated new warnings for the drug's label -- though not nearly as tough as regulators had wanted.
Propulsid had a good year anyway. Sales continued to surpass $1 billion. Johnson & Johnson continued to underwrite efforts that promoted Propulsid's use in children. A survey that year found that about 20 percent of babies in neonatal intensive care units were being given the drug.
A former broker with the Bank of America Corporation was acquitted yesterday of 29 counts tied to improper trading in mutual funds, the first major legal defeat for the New York State attorney general, Eliot Spitzer. A mistrial was declared on four remaining counts.
The former broker, Theodore C. Sihpol III, 37, had been accused of enabling a hedge fund manager, Edward J. Stern, to make improper trades in mutual funds. It was a tip about trading by Mr. Stern's hedge fund in 2003 that initiated a sweeping investigation of the mutual fund industry by Mr. Spitzer's office, joined by the Securities and Exchange Commission and other regulators.
Eli Lilly & Company said last night that it had agreed to pay $690 million to settle about 8,000 lawsuits filed by people who claimed they developed diabetes and other diseases after taking Zyprexa, a medication for schizophrenia and bipolar disorder that is Lilly's biggest-selling drug.
The settlement will cover 75 percent of all the Zyprexa-related suits against Lilly in the United States, according to the company, which said it would continue to defend the other cases. After lawyers' fees and costs, which will probably total more than $250 million, the average plaintiff will receive about $50,000 in the settlement. The settlement covers both state and federal cases.
Hollywood does not like it when outsiders play certain games.
That was the message sent this week to Microsoft and its agents at the Creative Artists Agency by movie studios outraged at the aggressive proposal being shopped for the film version of the popular Xbox video game Halo.
Alan Greenspan, chairman of the Federal Reserve, warned Thursday that the American economy faces significant ''imbalances'' and made it clear that he was not yet finished with ratcheting up interest rates.
In testimony before the Joint Economic Committee of Congress, Mr. Greenspan said the economy was on a ''reasonably firm footing'' but expressed concern about the ''negligible'' rate of personal savings, the huge trade deficit and growing evidence of risky speculation in the housing market.
The board of General Motors has given the United Automobile Workers union until the end of the month to agree to cuts in its members' health care benefits, union officials said Tuesday.
Many local union leaders have said they were willing to make concessions, but not to the extent that G.M. was seeking. If the union and the company cannot agree by the end of the month, G.M. is threatening to make the cuts on its own. Such a step could lead to a breakdown in G.M.'s relations with the union and possible strikes.
Setting up a potential conflict with General Motors, the president of the United Automobile Workers union said Wednesday that he would not agree to change G.M.'s labor contract before it expires in 2007 or to roll back health benefits for G.M. hourly workers to match the lesser benefits of the company's salaried employees.
In an extended interview the union's leader, Ron Gettelfinger, said that while he was willing to make concessions to help General Motors within the terms of their existing contract, the two sides were not yet close to reaching an agreement. G.M., he said, had not presented him with enough information to convince him of the severity of the financial situation.
THE A380, Airbus's new megajet, is an amazing sight. It is even beautiful in a sense, with curved wings that seem almost birdlike when viewed from behind the plane. But while the A380 inspires awe, its eventual success is not assured.
That is not because Airbus lacks orders. It has plenty, even if no American or Japanese carriers have bought passenger versions. The risk Airbus is running is the same one that devastated two other industries: telecommunications and genetically altered food. In each case, companies' sales rose rapidly, only to plunge because the customers had their own business problems.
Who is the biggest exporter of German-made washing machines to the United States? Not Miele or Bosch-Siemens, or any other German manufacturer. It is the American appliance maker, Whirlpool, the company proudly reports.
Never mind the higher labor cost -- $32 an hour, including benefits, versus $23 in the United States. The necessary technology existed in Germany when Whirlpool decided to sell front-loading washers to Americans. So did a trained work force and a Whirlpool factory already making a European version of the front loader.
The H.J. Heinz Company is close to a £470 million ($861.3 million) deal to buy HP Foods, the British condiment company, from Groupe Danone, according to three executives close to the negotiations.
The all-cash deal is expected to be announced here on Monday morning, these executives said. Heinz already has a sizable presence in Britain, where it employs about 5,000 people. The company, which is based in Pittsburgh, has been focusing on its ketchup and condiment lines.
Americans have long marveled at Canada's content rules for radio: Why is it that the likes of Shania Twain and Loverboy take up 35 percent of the airwaves?
Loverboy may soon have its revenge on American listeners, courtesy of satellite radio. Last week, a Canadian regulator approved versions of XM Satellite Radio and Sirius Satellite Radio service, with a catch: satellite radio in Canada must carry a minimum of eight channels with 85 percent Canadian content.
For decades, readers have turned to The Wall Street Journal to learn how business and politics are played out in the boardrooms, and the backrooms, of the nation.
Will those same readers turn to The Journal to learn how to make the perfect soufflé?
Most retailers might not want to load up their shelves with expensive electronics that could soon become obsolete or, worse, include technology rejected by most of the industry.
But not Frank Roshinski, the vice president for video merchandising at Tweeter, a high-end consumer electronics chain.
When Philip J. Purcell decided to step down as chief executive of Morgan Stanley last week, he expressed the hope that his departure would begin to unify a firm fractured by years of infighting.
''Let's get back to work,'' he said in a letter to employees.
ROMANCE is not dead in Hollywood. It has just become another profit center.
Celebrities who for years watched as their hook-ups, both real and imagined, fueled dozens of magazines and televisions shows are figuring out that the right two hearts beating in unison can sound an awful lot like a cash register.
The Bank of Communications, China's fifth largest, priced its shares on Saturday for an initial public offering at 2.50 Hong Kong dollars (32 cents), near the top end of a range of 1.95 Hong Kong dollars to 2.55 Hong Kong dollars. The offering will raise at least 14.6 billion Hong Kong dollars ($1.88 billion) and as much as 16.9 billion Hong Kong dollars ($2.17 billion) if a 15 percent overallotment option is later exercised, Goldman Sachs said.
The range had been widely viewed as relatively low when it was announced on June 6.
A new auditing regulator in Britain said yesterday that it had found problems in some audits conducted by the Big Four accounting firms, reflecting a failure to apply proper procedures. It said it had discovered two audited companies that it believed had not complied with all rules.
''The firms are capable of doing very good audits,'' Paul George, director of the Professional Oversight Board for Accountancy, said yesterday in a telephone interview. ''But we identify some areas where they are not applying their procedures and practices across all audits.''
For Geoff Shank and his employees at the United States Marshals Service, scouring the world to track down dangerous fugitives can be a tough job. But Mr. Shank's team is finding that sometimes, nailing a hotel room that fits into the government's measly budget is an even tougher job.
Mr. Shank, who is the chief inspector of the agency's Great Lakes Regional Task Force, said he was ''constantly'' fielding emergency calls from his division's 103 task force inspectors and officers, asking his permission to go over the allocated government per diem for hotel rooms.
The Maytag Corporation said last night that a consortium led by Qingdao Haier, a Chinese appliance maker, had offered to acquire all its outstanding stock for $16 a share.
Interest by the consortium, which also includes the Blackstone Group and Bain Capital, could ignite a takeover battle for Maytag, which agreed on May 19 to be acquired by another group, led by Ripplewood Holdings, for $1.13 billion, or $14 a share.
I LOST the cartilage in both knees when I was 13 years old. My doctors told me, ''No more rugby,'' but I kept playing until I was 45. I'm 6 feet 3 inches tall, and I had the No. 8 position. That's the flanker who controls the ball at the back of the scrum. Let's just say it isn't the safest spot to be.
By the time I quit rugby, my knees were shot. I've had multiple operations, and I'm scheduled to go under the knife again in August.
The nation's largest issuers of credit cards were still uncertain yesterday which customer accounts were affected by a computer security breach at a processing company that MasterCard reported Friday.
MasterCard said that more than 40 million credit card accounts were exposed. And data from roughly 200,000 accounts from MasterCard, Visa and other card issuers are known to have been stolen in the breach.
The admission last week by the big accounting firm KPMG of ''unlawful conduct'' in selling tax shelters may help shield the firm from criminal indictment, but it heightens its vulnerability to costly civil litigation.
KPMG's acknowledgment, in which it said it ''takes full responsibility'' and ''deeply regrets'' tax shelter abuses, may also undermine some fellow corporate defendants in civil lawsuits: businesses that worked with the accounting firm to sell and operate the tax shelters and that now potentially face hundreds of millions of dollars in claims.
So what are the Dolans really up to?
That was the question being posed on Wall Street yesterday as investors and analysts digested the family's surprise $7.9 billion offer to buy out the public shareholders of Cablevision Systems and spin off the company's entertainment assets.
For years, Michelle Phillips, a real estate agent in Indianapolis, drove to her office at odd hours just to check her e-mail messages and search Web sites on her company's high-speed Internet lines because her dial-up connection at home was too slow.
''At home, I can do laundry, take a shower and wash dishes while the computer is logging onto the Internet,'' she said with a laugh.
''Want drive fast cars?'' asks an advertisement, in broken English, atop the Web site iaaca.com. ''Want live in premium hotels? Want own beautiful girls? It's possible with dumps from Zo0mer.''
A ''dump,'' in the blunt vernacular of a relentlessly flourishing online black market, is a credit card number. And what Zo0mer is peddling is stolen account information -- name, billing address, phone -- for Gold Visa cards and MasterCards at $100 apiece.
Standing on the east bank of the Delaware River in this depressed town, next to boarded-up commercial buildings and an abandoned ferry pier, it is hard to imagine the time when the waterway was a playground for the rich and famous. But developers on both sides of the river are now hoping to turn back time with new projects that depend, in part, on an expansion of gambling in Delaware.
In the late 1920's, F. Scott Fitzgerald and his wife, Zelda, lived in a riverside mansion called Ellerslie directly across the river on the Delaware side. There the Jazz Age couple held their notoriously wild house parties for literary friends.
Federal regulators have warned Medtronic that it has failed to complete legally required steps to deal with reported flaws in one of its best-selling external defibrillators.
The device, known as the Lifepak 12, is used by emergency response teams and in hospital emergency rooms to deliver jolts of electricity that can sometimes restore normal heartbeats to patients whose hearts have suddenly stopped.
The European military contractor EADS has selected Mobile, Ala., over sites in three other Southern states as the location for its engineering and manufacturing plant as it tries to compete for a deal to supply aerial refueling tankers to the United States Air Force.
EADS North America, a unit of the European Aeronautic Defense and Space Company, is expected to announce today that it has selected a site at the Mobile airport, people involved in the negotiations said yesterday. Alabama, one of four finalists, was picked over Florida, Mississippi and South Carolina.
The judge in the retrial of L. Dennis Kozlowski and his top lieutenant unsealed two notes yesterday from jurors. The notes were sent to the judge during the fifth day of deliberations, which ended in guilty verdicts. At the time, the judge, Michael J. Obus of New York State Supreme Court, sealed the notes because of worries that the news media would speculate on the possibility of a hung jury.
Mr. Kozlowski's first trial resulted in a mistrial after one juror holding out for an acquittal made what appeared to be an ''O.K.'' signal to the defense. One note from the second trial said: ''One of the jurors is not participating with the rest of the group.'' The note was signed by the foreman, Isaac Rosenthal, and by jurors Ken Behm and Robert Aiken, and another juror whose name was not legible.
ADD another voice to the list of groups questioning how drugs are pitched to consumers.
The American Medical Association, the nation's largest organization of physicians, agreed yesterday to study whether consumer drug advertising leads to unnecessary prescriptions, potentially harming patients and driving up health costs.
The Ford Motor Company said Tuesday that it would cut 5 percent, or about 1,700, of its white-collar jobs in North America. It also said it would no longer give bonuses to managers or make matching contributions to the 401(k) plans of salaried employees.
Ford also lowered its yearly earnings forecast to $1 to $1.25 a share, compared with a previous forecast of $1.25 to $1.50 a share, saying it expected sluggish vehicle sales to continue. It was the second time in two and a half months that Ford cut its earnings projections for the year.
Federal banking regulators said yesterday that they had started an investigation into CardSystems Solutions, the payment processor where a security breach has put millions of American cardholders at risk for fraud.
The Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council, an interagency group of the federal banking regulators, said the investigation began last week. Officials are assessing security at CardSystems' operational centers, at the major credit card companies and at any banks that may be involved, the council said. It would not identify the banks contacted in the inquiry.
Ira Ehrenpreis may be a kind of prophet advocating investments in alternative energy companies, but don't accuse him of being noble.
In recent months Mr. Ehrenpreis, a venture capitalist at Technology Partners in Palo Alto, Calif., has been asked any number of times to speak to audiences about ''clean tech,'' a term that encompasses such things as solar energy, water purification systems and alternative automotive fuels.
Krispy Kreme, the doughnut maker, announced the departure of six top executives yesterday, as the struggling company looks to clean up its operations and turn itself around.
In a terse news release, the company said a special committee of independent board directors decided last week that six company officers should be discharged. The departing executives, who were not identified, held leading positions in the company's operations, finance, business development, and manufacturing and distribution divisions.
A federal appeals court said yesterday that the Securities and Exchange Commission must produce a cost-benefit analysis to justify a rule that boards of mutual funds must have an independent chairman and at least 75 percent of directors who are independent.
The ruling, by the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit on a lawsuit filed by the United States Chamber of Commerce, is significant because it comes at a time that the commission is in transition. The S.E.C. chairman, William H. Donaldson, is resigning at the end of the month; President Bush has named Representative Christopher Cox, a conservative Republican from California, to be Mr. Donaldson's successor. The rule on mutual fund boards was adopted in June 2004 by a vote of 3 to 2, with Mr. Donaldson voting with the two Democratic commissioners.
Warner Brother Pictures has a tentative agreement to co-produce 25 movies with Legendary Pictures, a new production company financed by a consortium of Wall Street investors.
Legendary -- whose investors include, among others, AIG Direct Investments, Banc of America Capital Investors and Falcon Investment Advisors -- will put up $500 million, to be invested in a portfolio of films produced over several years. In addition to being a partner on projects produced by Warner Brothers, which is part of Time Warner, Legendary will develop its own movies as part of the venture.
The Chinese oil and gas giant CNOOC was expected to decide at a Wednesday board meeting whether to make a cash bid of around $18 billion for Unocal, according to one executive involved in the negotiations.
If the state-controlled CNOOC does make a bid, it would be pitting itself directly against Chevron, which signed a $16.4 billion cash and stock agreement to buy Unocal in April.
For the last few years, some of the most gasp-inducingly thin digital cameras have been found in Casio's stylish Exilim line. The new Exilim EX-S500, just over half an inch deep at its thinnest point, continues that tradition.
The new model takes five-megapixel still images and shoots video in MPEG-4 format, at 640 by 480 pixels and 30 frames a second. Image and video information is stored on an SD card. (Get ready to pony up extra money for storage, however, as a card is not included with the camera.)
In a widely anticipated move, the Toronto-Dominion Bank agreed on Wednesday to sell its TD Waterhouse USA brokerage unit to the Ameritrade Holding Corporation in a stock-and-cash deal valued at about $3.3 billion.
Under the terms of the sale, Ameritrade stockholders will receive a special $6 a share dividend. Toronto-Dominion will acquire a 32 percent stake in the combined operation, which will be known as TD Ameritrade.
Citigroup is expected to announce today an agreement to swap its asset management business for Legg Mason's brokerage business as well as cash and stock, in a deal worth a total of about $4 billion, one person close to the talks said yesterday.
A deal, which has been anticipated, would allow Citigroup, the world's largest financial services firm, to focus on selling investment products while getting out of the business of creating funds for individual and institutional clients.
The head of Sony, Sir Howard Stringer, on Wednesday promised shareholders a fresh plan to revamp the company and halt the long slide in its stock price as he formally became Sony's first foreign chief executive.
Sir Howard, 63, said his executive team would draft a plan by September to increase Sony's profit by rebuilding the core electronics division, which has been battered by new competitors and rapidly falling prices on flat-panel television, digital cameras and other products.
About two years ago, Jack Wheeler set out to raise money to hire a staff for MicroPhage, in Longmont, Colo., his start-up company that provides technology for detecting bacteria. He knew it was too early in the game to attract venture capital, so he began sounding out that amorphous network of private investors known as angels.
Angels are wealthy individuals who typically sink around $50,000, into promising new companies in the hope of lush returns down the road. They are often the best hope for struggling start-ups that are high on promise and low on cash. The problem for entrepreneurs is that to get the money they need, they often have to negotiate a confusing array of 5, 10 or even more separate deals.
As a negotiator, Ron Gettelfinger, the United Automobile Workers president, is known more for the carrot than the stick. Just don't mistake him for easygoing.
This year, he briefly banned marines stationed near Solidarity House, the union's headquarters, from parking in the union lot if they drove foreign cars or had Bush bumper stickers. And in 2001, shortly after being nominated for the union presidency, he summed up his style in one word: ''abrasive.''
It seemed like a good idea to both doctors and federal officials.
Since the government was paying hundreds of millions of dollars a year for hip and knee replacements for Medicare patients, why not create a database showing how competing products performed, a group of orthopedic surgeons suggested last year.
Microsoft plans to announce today that it will pay the legal costs for any personal computer maker or software company that may be sued over patents, trademarks or trade secrets, based on claims against it.
The move by Microsoft is the latest step in the computer industry to deal with a rising number of intellectual property lawsuits against software makers and the companies who distribute their technology.
Two drug companies are fighting over the rights to Tamiflu, an influenza drug that is viewed as the best hope for slowing a possible global pandemic of bird flu.
Gilead Sciences, which invented the drug, said yesterday that it wanted to take back the rights to the drug from Roche, which makes and sells it. Gilead said Roche had not done enough to manufacture and promote the drug, thereby violating the 1996 contract between the companies.
The Toyota Motor Corporation is expected to announce next Thursday that it will build a second manufacturing plant in Canada, people who have been briefed on the company's plans said.
The plant will be in Woodstock, Ontario, about 30 miles southwest of Toyota's operation in Cambridge. The plant is expected to open in 2008 and will cost about 600 million Canadian dollars ($486 million), including 125 million Canadian dollars in incentive money from the governments of Canada and Ontario.
Stocks fell sharply yesterday as oil prices hit $60 a barrel for the first time and FedEx reported disappointing earnings, citing the high cost of energy.
Crude oil prices briefly touched $60, a record, on inventory concerns and expectations of a strong summer driving season; the price retreated in the afternoon.
IN prosecuting white-collar crimes, it is sometimes easier to catch big fish than small fry.
While the conviction of L. Dennis Kozlowski and the sentencing of John J. Rigas have been hailed as victories in the government's post-Enron campaign against corporate misconduct, the acquittal of Theodore C. Sihpol III shows that prosecuting low-level executives can be difficult.
The BKF Capital Group, a publicly traded investment firm, said yesterday that it appeared to have lost a battle with a hedge fund looking to replace three board members.
BKF said a preliminary count at its annual meeting indicated that shareholders had voted to replace its chairman, John A. Levin, and two other directors, with a slate led by Warren G. Lichtenstein who runs Steel Partners, a $3 billion hedge fund firm. Mr. Lichtenstein said he would propose that Mr. Levin be appointed to a vacancy on the board.
A powerful national organization that enforces quality standards for hospitals said yesterday that it had found a flaw in software that it had sold to more than 1,000 hospitals, which use the program to help them qualify for accreditation and payments from Medicare.
Joint Commission Resources, a unit of the Joint Commission on Accreditation of Healthcare Organizations, disclosed the defect in a note on its Web site.
For thousands of Internet users, the offer seemed all too alluring: revealing pictures of Jennifer Lopez, available at a mere click of the mouse.
But the pictures never appeared. The offer was a ruse, and the click downloaded software code that turned the user's computer into a launching pad for Internet warfare.
The federal government's campaign against income tax protesters suffered a major setback yesterday when a federal jury in Sacramento acquitted a former Internal Revenue Service investigator on charges of helping to prepare false tax returns.
The former investigator, Joseph R. Banister, 42, of San Jose, Calif., has become a hero to the tax protest movement, even though two of his clients are serving long prison sentences after following his advice.
What if Frodo Baggins, instead of confronting the evil empire in ''The Lord of the Rings,'' just got himself a lawyer and sued?
The real-life corollary is going on now in Hollywood where Peter Jackson, one of the film industry's most powerful and popular directors, is suing New Line Cinema, the subsidiary of Time Warner that financed and distributed his Oscar-winning ''Lord of the Rings'' film trilogy.
When Harold Whittlesey McGraw III joined McGraw-Hill in 1980, there were plenty of skeptics -- despite the fact that his name was on the building.
Even after a decade at McGraw-Hill, the company his great-grandfather founded and started to build into an empire, many thought Mr. McGraw, who is known as Terry, was yet another heir who had lucked into a job he could not handle. Some went so far as to call him ''our Dan Quayle.''
As politicians in Washington watch the Chinese bid for a big American oil and gas company play out, the reaction in Japan to the swelling economic muscle of China provides an early warning sign of the mixed emotions that China evokes as it rises on the global stage.
In the last five years, the Chinese economic boom overshadowed the political risks for the Japanese. But in May, export growth to China stalled. New polls of Japanese investors show a growing reluctance to make further investments in China.
IN many respects, the career of Steven T. Florio, the former chief executive of Condé Nast, is an amazing American success story. A knockabout guy from Jamaica, Queens, blessed with a very finite set of skills -- a knack for selling advertising pages and a facility for slicing the conversational baloney -- Mr. Florio ended up running the second-largest, and arguably the most prestigious, magazine company in the United States. What a grand land of opportunity we live in.
Rightly told, Mr. Florio's story would not be a best seller, but it would have significant charms. But apparently it won't be written, at least not by him.
Federal Reserve officials, who meet this week, are beginning to suspect that the perplexing decline in long-term interest rates is more than a temporary aberration.
The possibility has major implications for the economy, and it creates new puzzles for Fed officials on how they should respond.
Will the legal defeat of two file-sharing companies change anything?
The Supreme Court's ruling against Grokster and StreamCast Networks yesterday created serious concern among advocates of file-sharing technology, along with some sighs of relief that the decision left room for future technological innovations.
Morgan Stanley directors, in pushing hard to hire John J. Mack as chief executive, may find the most compelling lure for him might be their own jobs.
With Mr. Mack back at his Westchester County home, having flown in from London on Sunday, the discussions have picked up and people involved in the talks expect a deal to be clinched in the coming days.
If renovated movie palaces are considered cool these days, why not a factory-reconditioned home theater?
A refurbished Pioneer 50-inch plasma television with some previous history fetched $3,300 on eBay over Memorial Day weekend, after an auction that opened with a 99-cent bid. Even Pioneer Electronics, which arranged the auction as an experiment, wondered if the frenzied bidding that quadrupled the price in the last hours was just holiday madness, said Russ Johnston, senior vice president for marketing in Pioneer's home entertainment division.
Bank of America, after absorbing FleetBoston last year in a $50 billion deal, now has 5,800 branches in 30 states. J.P. Morgan Chase, having bought Bank One for $60 billion in stock in another 2004 mega-merger, now counts 2,500 branches. Royal Bank of Scotland, the parent of Citizens Bank, increased its presence in the United States to 1,500 branches after its acquisition of Charter One, also last year.
Then there is the Western National Bank in Phoenix. It has a single location, at the intersection of 24th Street and Camelback Road, on the ground floor of an officer tower in a business district known as the Camelback Corridor. And it does not even have a drive-through window, because the entrepreneur who opened it in February could not find a piece of real estate that would accommodate one.
Under pressure from civil rights groups, ABC Television yesterday canceled plans to broadcast a reality show that let the white suburban families living on a Texas cul-de-sac decide which of seven families -- including one black, one Asian, one Hispanic and one gay couple -- would move into their community.
The show, ''Welcome to the Neighborhood,'' was to be a summer replacement for the top-rated ''Desperate Housewives,'' which is set on a fictional cul-de-sac, Wisteria Lane, where no one can keep her nose out of anyone else's business.
For the last two weeks, Microsoft has been in talks to buy a private Silicon Valley company, a move that underscores just how eager Microsoft is to catch up with Google, the search and advertising giant.
The company that Microsoft has pursued is controversial: Claria, an adware marketer formerly called Gator, and best known for its pop-up ads and software that tracks people visiting Web sites. The Gator adware has frequently been denounced by privacy advocates for its intrusiveness.
In a sweeping change to its management structure, UBS, the giant Swiss bank, is expected to announce today that Huw Jenkins, the global head of equities, will succeed John P. Costas as chief executive of its global investment banking unit, people briefed on details of the plan said yesterday.
Mr. Costas, who has overseen the Swiss-based bank through a period of rapid growth and significant market share gains in the United States, will head a hedge fund within the global asset management group to focus initially on trading various types of debt securities.
Crude oil prices breached $60 a barrel. Bonds gained steadily, pushing yields below 4 percent. And seemingly nothing can break the back of the real estate boom.
The result is a distracted stock market that is not getting many breaks as it starts the second half of the year.
WHEN Crest introduced a toothpaste line two years ago, it used focus groups to help pick three flavors: cinnamon, herbal and citrus. This time around, the new Crest flavors will be chosen by customers.
Crest, a division of Procter & Gamble, is asking people to go to the Web to vote for their favorite from a short list of contenders: lemon ice, sweet berry punch or tropica exotica. Samples of the flavors are attached to some Crest products.
Boeing's hiring of W. James McNerney Jr. as chief executive yesterday raised investor hopes that the company can wring bigger and more consistent profits from its operations and left 3M scrambling after Mr. McNerney's abrupt departure.
Boeing shares rose 7 percent yesterday, and 3M's fell 4.9 percent.
Following is the text of a revised statement released by the Federal Reserve yesterday after the Fed's monetary policy panel, the Federal Open Market Committee, decided to raise its benchmark interest rates a quarter-point:
The Federal Open Market Committee decided today to raise its target for the federal funds rate by 25 basis points to 31/4 percent.
There was drama both on and off the soccer field here Wednesday night as Brazil trounced Argentina, 4 to 1, in the final game of the Confederations Cup, a warm-up for the World Cup.
Moments after the match began, a sudden thunderstorm dropped heavy rain on Frankfurt's newly completed stadium, tearing a hole in its retractable roof and showering the grass with water.
Vivek Paul, the vice chairman of Wipro, one of India's top outsourcing companies, said Thursday that he was leaving to become a partner in the Texas Pacific Group, a private equity firm.
Mr. Paul has been one of the most public and articulate faces of India's outsourcing industry, and he presided over enormous growth in Wipro's outsourcing business during his six-year tenure.
A three-year-old federal law that provided a backstop to insurance companies in the event of a terrorist attack should not be extended in its current form, Bush administration officials said yesterday.
The Terrorism Risk Insurance Act was approved in the wake of the attacks of 2001, when many insurers stopped providing terrorism coverage or made it extremely costly. Scheduled to expire at the end of this year, it requires the federal government to cover 90 percent of combined damages in excess of $15 billion and up to $100 billion.
An extensive study by the Government Accountability Office, delivered to members of Congress yesterday, confirmed that Pentagon rules intended to protect service members from high-pressure or deceptive life insurance sales have been repeatedly violated in recent years.
The study also concluded that the Defense Department failed to effectively address those violations, and it warned that new rules proposed by the Pentagon this summer do not go far enough to repair the department's weaknesses.
Kenneth D. Lewis has quietly emerged as the deal maker to beat in the banking business.
When he became chief executive of Bank of America four years ago, he promised to steer the company away from the frenetic takeover activity that had become its trademark.
Scientists at Hewlett-Packard said Thursday that they had developed a new strategy for designing a quantum computer composed of switches of light beams that could be vastly more powerful than today's digital electronic computers, which are constructed from transistors.
Quantum computers are machines based on the principles of quantum mechanics, a branch of physics that describes the quirky world of subatomic particles where both yes and no can simultaneously be true.
The Federal Reserve raised short-term interest rates on Thursday, the ninth consecutive increase and almost certainly not the last.
As investors expected, the central bank raised the federal funds rate on overnight loans between banks a quarter-point, to 3.25 percent.
Members of Congress opposed to a Chinese bid to take over the California-based energy company Unocal built broader support yesterday for their campaign to block the deal on the ground that it could threaten national and energy security in the United States.
But China is not the first foreign country to seek American energy assets. Indeed, oil industry analysts say that the effort by the China National Offshore Oil Corporation to outbid Chevron for Unocal appears to pose less risk of generating domestic shortages or other energy-security headaches than other foreign acquisitions that have been approved by the government.
A former Wal-Mart executive responsible for inspecting apparel factories in Central America has sued the company, accusing it of firing him for being too aggressive about finding workplace violations, like locked exits and mandatory 24-hour shifts.
The executive, James W. Lynn, said he upset Wal-Mart officials by complaining vigorously about apparel contractors that fired pregnant workers and about one company official who, according to several inspectors, was corrupt and treated substandard factories leniently.
Battered by brutal fare competition and ever-higher oil prices, major airlines have found a valuable antidote: carrying passengers overseas. International flights are in record demand as the summer travel season kicks off, and ticket prices, always high at this time of year, seem extra pricey compared with low fares at home.
The biggest push is to Europe, as American passengers jump on the euro's recent weakening. But getting there will not be cheap for procrastinators. Consumers who waited until now to book their international tickets can expect to pay a minimum of $1,000 from New York to popular destinations like London and Paris.
Boeing agreed to pay its new chief executive, W. James McNerney Jr., a total compensation package that could top $53 million to wrest him away from 3M, Boeing said Wednesday.
The package essentially replaces the one that Mr. McNerney held at 3M, and to collect its full value he will have to stay at Boeing at least six years, company officials said.
When Mike Kreidler was an optometrist in Olympia, Wash., he railed against trial lawyers. He believed that aggressive trial lawyers were the reason he faced rising insurance premiums.
Dr. Kreidler, now in his second term as Washington State's insurance commissioner, has changed his mind. He has decided that the problem is not the lawyers -- although they have contributed -- but also the insurance companies.
Late-night comedians had a field day in the summer of 2002 when a lawsuit accusing McDonald's of making two teenage customers in New York fat and unhealthy was filed.
But thousands of restaurant owners were not amused: Pelman v. McDonald's was the second time in a month that lawyers had tried to hold food companies responsible for America's obesity crisis.
Daren M. Keeter, a wiry, sandy-haired property investor in the United States Virgin Islands, received an intriguing invitation six years ago. The big accounting firm KPMG, which had audited the books of his family's charcoal company for two decades, was giving a party for its top Southeast clients in downtown Atlanta. Would Mr. Keeter like to attend?
Today, Mr. Keeter may wish that he never had gone.
The Hollywood studio executives who gathered here late last month at an annual home entertainment conference in Century City were all chuckles and backslaps. In front of several hundred industry managers, analysts and reporters, they talked breezily about hit movies, DVD sales and prospects for the holiday season.
Then, with a few minutes left in the session, the moderator asked the question everyone was waiting for: Can the studios break the deadlock between the rival camps developing the next generation of digital video discs, players and recorders?
Shares of DreamWorks Animation SKG tumbled 13.2 percent yesterday after the company lowered its earnings estimates because of disappointing DVD sales and also pulled back on a planned $500 million stock offering.
In addition, the company said the Securities and Exchange Commission had started an informal investigation into the trading of its securities after a report on May 10 that news of disappointing first-quarter earnings had been released before the company announcement.
When oil prices spiked in the early 1980's after the Iranian revolution, Jared Nedzel gave up his 1978 Pontiac Trans Am, an emblematic American muscle car, for a smaller, less extravagant Toyota Corolla. He was on his way to Cornell University to study civil engineering and he needed a more economical car.
Today, Mr. Nedzel, a 44-year-old software developer who lives near Boston, owns a Toyota 4Runner, a sport utility vehicle he bought two years ago. It gets about 17.5 miles per gallon, as much as the Trans Am did, and he uses it for his 45-minute commute to work and for driving near the beaches of Martha's Vineyard to get to his favorite fishing spots.
When will Wachovia join the big dance?
Two years ago, Wachovia, the nation's fourth-largest bank, considered buying FleetBoston, but balked at the price. In waltzed its crosstown rival, Bank of America, which consummated the merger and strengthened its position in the Northeast. Three weeks ago, after walking away from the credit card giant MBNA, Wachovia again watched from the sidelines as Bank of America paid a 30 percent premium to become the nation's largest issuer of credit cards.
CBS News is turning its eye on itself.
As part of an ambitious attempt to revive CBSNews.com with a broad array of free video news produced just for its Web site, CBS said yesterday that it would also introduce a Web log to comment on CBS newscasts, whether broadcast or online.
Most everyone you meet in Silicon Valley, or so it sometimes seems, dreams of joining a top venture capital firm, a job that brings prestige and the power to finance promising start-ups -- and, not incidentally, typically pays in the millions of dollars.
Apparently even former secretaries of state sometimes harbor those dreams.
Volkswagen must be one of the few companies that could record a 9 percent increase in its stock price after accusations that two of its executives solicited bribes, siphoned money into fake companies and arranged visits to prostitutes on the company tab.
Sometimes, it seems, scandal is healthy -- especially if it becomes a pretext for an overdue housecleaning.
Zhang Libing has painted more van Goghs than van Gogh ever did.
At 26, Mr. Zhang estimates that he has painted up to 20,000 copies of van Gogh's works in a paint-spattered third-floor garret here where freshly washed socks and freshly painted canvases dry side-by-side on the balcony.
THE government had opened a criminal investigation and the company's stock plunged. What was the company to do?
At Allied Capital, the answer was clear -- and effective. First, it blamed short sellers for prompting the investigation. Then it added a politician to its board and declared that henceforth it would provide less information than ever to its investors.
In the summer blockbuster movie ''Mr. and Mrs. Smith,'' from 20th Century Fox, Brad Pitt and Angelina Jolie play godless suburbanites and professional assassins. But when they steal their neighbor's car for an extended chase scene, a crucifix hangs conspicuously from the rearview mirror, and in the next scene the actors wear borrowed jackets that read ''Jesus Rocks,'' as they go on the lam.
''We decided to make the next-door neighbor, whose crucifix it is, be hip, young, cool Christians,'' explained the movie's director, Doug Liman. ''It's literally in there for no other reason than I thought, This is cool.''
The Guidant Corporation, already embroiled in controversy over recalls of heart devices, alerted doctors yesterday that nine of its older pacemaker models were prone to failing. Some patients might need to have the units replaced, the company said.
The alert covers 28,000 pacemakers made from November 1997 to October 2000 and still implanted in patients. Guidant said that a component used to seal the pacemakers could degrade, allowing moisture to build up and causing the devices to fail. Such failure could cause ''serious health complications'' in some patients, the company said. The flaw may have contributed to one patient's death, though that is not clear.
Eight years ago, Sister Margaret Rose Smyth had to go out of her way to find illegal immigrants who might need her help, listening for Spanish conversations at the Kmart on the North Fork of Long Island.
Now every day, Sister Margaret, a Roman Catholic nun who is the director of the North Fork Spanish Apostolate, typically sees off two early-morning buses filled with laborers seeking work along the Long Island Expressway, giving them business tips and moral support.
Hewlett-Packard announced Tuesday that it will lay off 14,500 workers, or nearly 10 percent of its staff, over the next 18 months as part of a revamping plan that the company's executives hope will turn around the struggling fortunes of the giant computer and printer maker.
The cuts come four months into the tenure of Mark V. Hurd, who took over as chief executive on April 1. Mr. Hurd was named to lead the company after the board dismissed Carleton S. Fiorina for failing to carry out an ambitious corporate strategy to compete with the likes of I.B.M. and Dell.
A month ago, Sanford I. Weill basked in the limelight as more than 300 Wall Street power brokers, elite dignitaries and political insiders filled tents outside his Greenwich, Conn., mansion, joining him and his wife, Joan, to celebrate their 50th wedding anniversary.
According to one attendee, Mr. Weill was all smiles as he mingled with dignitaries like former President Bill Clinton and his wife, Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton, as well as top Citigroup managers, including the chief executive, Charles O. Prince, late into the evening. The shining moment of the event? When Pope Benedict XVI sent along his blessings to the couple.
An old Chinese saying holds that the longest journey begins with the first step, but in the case of China's currency policy shift yesterday, the destination of the journey has been left completely unclear and the chosen route has many risks.
China has abandoned one of the world's clearest currency policies, a tightly managed peg of the yuan to the dollar that had endured since 1997. China has chosen instead to adopt one of the world's most opaque currency policies, with a secret mechanism to reset the yuan's value each night.
The Bush administration welcomed China's move toward a more flexible currency on Thursday, but the cautious shift may not be enough to cool the anti-China sentiments boiling up in Congress.
Treasury Secretary John W. Snow called it ''the start of an awfully important process'' that might resolve one of the biggest economic disputes between the United States and China.
John C. Malone, the media industry financier, moved a step closer to carving up what remains of his United States holdings yesterday. He completed the spinoff of Liberty Media's 50 percent interest in the cable channel group Discovery Communications to shareholders. On their first trading day, the shares closed at $15.09, up 24 cents.
Now, Mr. Malone's plans for the rest of Liberty Media's assets may soon call for even more reorganizations, according to people briefed on the situation. One strategy under discussion would have Mr. Malone increasing his 18 percent interest in the News Corporation but allowing his sometime ally Rupert Murdoch, the chief executive of News Corporation, to vote the shares.
The oil industry has agreed to contribute $2 billion to help clean up spills of a gasoline additive that is fouling groundwater in exchange for immunity protection against dozens of lawsuits, people close to the negotiations said.
But the industry's proposed contribution, which would go into a new fund set up to deal with claims of contamination by the fuel additive, methyl tertiary-butyl ether, or MTBE, falls far short of some estimates of what it would take to pay for the cleanups.
In a sign that the private equity firms that have dominated European deal making in recent years are beginning to be squeezed out, France Télécom is expected to win a 10 billion-euro or $12 billion fight for the Spanish mobile company Amena.
France Télécom's cash and stock purchase of Amena could be announced this week, possibly as soon as Tuesday, several executives involved in the negotiations said. Monday is a holiday in Spain.
WHEN you look back on all the attempts to curb teenage drinking, smoking and drug use over the last couple of decades, you start to ask yourself a question that countless parents have asked: Does anybody really know how to change a teenager's behavior?
Sometimes the government and advocacy groups have used straight talk, like Nancy Reagan's ''Just Say No'' campaign. Other times they have tried to play it cool. They drop an egg into a sizzling frying pan and announce, ''This is your brain on drugs,'' or they print mock advertisements that pretend to market cancer. It all feels like a delicate exercise in adolescent psychology.
In an effort to lower expectations for the coming television season, Kevin Reilly, the president of entertainment for NBC, told reporters at a news conference here Sunday that the network might not achieve any ratings improvements soon, and said that NBC was altering the outlook for its financial prospects.
''This season may not see a turnaround for us,'' Mr. Reilly said.
With its long reliance on talk formats and call-in programs, radio was arguably the first open-source media form. Now a new Public Radio International program, ''Open Source from P.R.I.,'' will test whether the collective intelligence permeating the Web can make not just loud radio, but smart radio. Not only does the program pull from unfiltered voices and opinions found on blogs, Open Source uses its own blog (www.radioopensource.org) to cull ideas and sources from its listeners.
Listeners are invited to make suggestions on Open Source's blog, where they are openly posted along with ideas from the program's five producers. When the comment flow starts and suggestions are made -- including recommendations for guests -- the audience can watch the program come together, sometimes over the course of a week, other times in an afternoon.
As vice president, Al Gore learned that the most disarming way to counter his wooden image was to tell better jokes about himself than the late-night comedians did. Mr. Gore now says he received occasional tutoring on those one-liners from the master of the television monologue, Johnny Carson.
Mr. Gore said he had telephoned Mr. Carson on several occasions in the mid-1990's to seek his guidance on ''timing and delivery.''
They go head-to-head in Best Buy, Wal-Mart and CompUSA with their televisions, DVD recorders and camcorders: Sony, the world's best-known electronics maker, and Samsung Electronics, the hard-charging upstart.
Yet in a twist emblematic of the companies' shifting prospects, Sony has increasingly been looking to Samsung to revive its sagging fortunes. Samsung, long seen as a low-end electronics maker, is now being courted by Sony for its manufacturing prowess and innovative technology.
DECADES ago, back-to-school shoppers heard commercials featuring a choir warbling a jingle that began, ''School bells ring and children sing, 'It's back to Robert Hall again.'''
Now, the retailer Kmart is seeking to stimulate back-to-school sales with tunes like ''At Auntie Tom's'' by Fuzz Townshend and ''Here It Goes Again'' by OK Go -- not to mention a commercial in which boys ogle the denim-clad derrière of a female classmate.
Glynn Ross, the founding general director of Seattle Opera, who established the company's tradition of performing Wagner's ''Ring'' cycle, died on Thursday in Tucson. He was 90 and lived in Tucson and Seattle.
The cause was complications of a stroke, the opera company announced.
Teva Pharmaceutical Industries, the No.1 source of generic drugs in the United States, said yesterday that it would acquire the Ivax Corporation for about $7.4 billion in a bid to become the world's largest maker of lower-cost drugs.
The deal will allow the companies to pool their resources at a time when mounting competition is forcing the industry to cut prices and provide a wider range of products. As copies of drugs formerly under patent, generics have become a commodity in the United States and elsewhere, and pharmaceutical companies must operate internationally, analysts said.
Since the recall of 18 million Lipitor tablets in 2003, the Food and Drug Administration has been investigating how counterfeit Lipitor pills made their way into United States pharmacies.
Two years into that investigation, the government expects to seek an indictment against a large pharmaceutical distributor, according to court documents filed by the Justice Department in a related civil case.
The video clip Valarie D'Elia did not show on her NY1 cable television travel program could have been titled ''Erupting in Pompeii.''
The opening shot: evening, Ms. D'Elia and a cameraman, Ron Cucos, at a restaurant overlooking the Amalfi coast of Italy, savoring shellfish with pasta and red sauce.
Fidelity Investments, the giant mutual fund company, said yesterday that federal regulators were considering taking civil action against it as part of an inquiry over whether its employees improperly accepted gifts or entertainment from brokers.
Fidelity, which manages more than $1 trillion, said it had received a Wells notice from the Boston office of the Securities and Exchange Commission, meaning that the agency's staff is preparing to recommend action against the company and is giving Fidelity a chance to refute any accusations.
FREQUENT FLIERS' FAVORITES Business travelers overwhelmingly prefer using the major legacy carriers, but Southwest Airlines, the low-cost carrier, nevertheless ranks No. 3 on the list of Top 5 airlines, after Delta and American but before United And Northwest. That's according to the 2005 National Business Travel Monitor by YPB&R/Yankelovitch Partners. Top criteria for ranking an airline: on-time departure record (cited by 92 percent), in-flight service (91 percent), legroom (88 percent) and frequency of upgrades (72 percent).
NEW NICHE IN AIR TRAVEL JetBlue Airways is about to take initial delivery of a fleet of Embraer 190 jets, which seat 100 and are seen as occupying a niche between regional jets and full-size airliners. JetBlue is expected to begin flying eight of the Embraer 190's in November, augmenting its current fleet of 77 Airbus A320's, which each seat 156. The Embraer 190's are economical to operate and will enable JetBlue to serve smaller airports, Dave Barger, JetBlue's president and chief operating officer, said last week.
With promises of more trade protection for textile companies, President Bush coaxed as many as six Republican lawmakers on Monday to vote for the Central American Free Trade Agreement.
Three House Republicans from textile-producing districts announced they would support the trade pact, mainly because the White House promised to get commitments from Central American countries to maintain or increase their use of American fabrics.
When Robert Gray retired in 2002 from St. John Knits, the clothing company based in Irvine, Calif., that is the largest luxury supplier to Neiman Marcus, it was as if a single thread had been pulled from a family dynasty built over 40 years.
After several seasons of diminishing profits and complaints about the company's fusty image, the rest of that dynasty unraveled yesterday as the company announced the departures of Mr. Gray's wife, Marie, the chief designer; and their daughter, Kelly, who had been creative director and a constant feature in St. John advertisements for 22 years.
The nation's roaring housing market set its second record in three months as sales of existing homes climbed 2.7 percent in June, to 7.33 million, according to a report released yesterday.
Low mortgage rates and strong demand drove the frenetic sales activity, which defied expectations that the market was starting to cool, at least in some of the hottest regions. The median price -- half the homes sold were more expensive, half were less expensive -- rose at nearly its highest annual pace in almost 25 years, 14.7 percent, to a record $219,000. It was just short of the April year-over-year advance of 15.1 percent.
In a sign that the regulatory scrutiny of the insurance industry is not abating, RenaissanceRe Holdings, a Bermuda-based reinsurer that recently restated three years of earnings, disclosed yesterday that the Securities and Exchange Commission has advised its chief executive, James N. Stanard, that he may soon face a civil complaint.
The company also said regulators had recommended the filing of enforcement proceedings against Michael W. Cash, a senior vice president in RenaissanceRe's specialty reinsurance unit who resigned on July 11. Mr. Cash left the company after refusing to accept a subpoena from the S.E.C. seeking his testimony about the company's restatement. Mr. Cash is a Bermudian citizen.
The Walt Disney Company on Monday chose Daniel Battsek, who has overseen the company's film distribution in Britain, to run Miramax Films after the departure of its co-chairmen, Harvey and Bob Weinstein.
When Mr. Battsek, 47, takes over after the Weinsteins step down on Sept. 30, he faces the challenge of re-establishing the Miramax label as a force for independent or specialty films, even as Disney is expected to slash its budget by half or more. That in turn, could reduce the unit's slate from as many as 20 or 25 films a year, to as few as 6 to 10.
At a time when Detroit's Big Three automakers are offering steeply reduced ''employee discounts'' to nearly everyone who walks in the door, Toyota Motor is doing the opposite: earlier this month, it announced slight price increases on many models sold in the United States.
Toyota, Japan's largest carmaker, says the increases, which will affect American versions of its popular Camry sedan and some cars in its luxury Lexus lineup, are necessary because of the rising costs of steel and other raw materials.
AN unconventional campaign for a nonbutter spread is unusual for the way the ads will be served up.
The spread is I Can't Believe It's Not Butter!, a Unilever brand that has long used traditional advertising, primarily television commercials, to reach its target market of women ages 35 and up. For the spray-bottle version of the spread, the American unit of Unilever is introducing this week a humorous campaign devoid of TV spots.
To disguise a payoff to a radio programmer at KHTS in San Diego, Epic Records called a flat-screen television a ''contest giveaway.'' Epic, part of Sony BMG Music Entertainment, used the same gambit in delivering a laptop computer to the program director of WRHT in Greenville, N.C. -- who also received PlayStation 2 games and an out-of-town trip with his girlfriend.
In another example, a Sony BMG executive considered a plan to promote the song ''A.D.I.D.A.S.'' by Killer Mike by sending radio disc jockeys one Adidas sneaker, with the promise of the second one when they had played the song 10 times.
Michael Kinsley, the provocative editorial and opinion-page editor of The Los Angeles Times, said yesterday that he would be changing jobs in the next few months and most likely would no longer be running the department. He will not necessarily leave the editorial page, he said, but his new role is still being worked out.
''It's a very complicated arrangement I have, and not all aspects are working as well as others,'' Mr. Kinsley, 54, said in a telephone interview yesterday from Seattle, from which he commutes to Los Angeles every other week.
Capital development costs at the nation's airports will average $14.3 billion a year from 2005 through 2009 as air travel reaches record levels, according to a survey to be released today by an airport trade association.
The association, Airports Council International-North America, which represents the governing bodies that own and operate commercial airports in the United States and Canada, estimates that United States airport development costs will exceed $71.5 billion through 2009.
Turning up the pressure on its unions and Congress, Northwest Airlines said yesterday that it would have to seek bankruptcy protection without $1.1 billion in wage and benefit cuts and the passage of a pension reform bill.
Northwest's warning, its most dire to date, came as the airline posted a deeper net loss for the second quarter. Northwest lost $279 million, or $3.21 a share, compared with $78 million, or 90 cents a share, not including unusual items, in the 2004 quarter.
Scott D. Sullivan, the former chief financial officer of WorldCom, who faces 25 years in jail for his role in an accounting fraud that toppled the company, agreed yesterday to forfeit his lavish Florida estate and his retirement fund to settle a class-action lawsuit.
To settle a case brought by the New York State Common Retirement Fund, Mr. Sullivan will hand over his 30,000-square-foot mansion in Boca Raton, Fla., which is now being offered for sale at $10.9 million.
General Motors said Tuesday that it would sell up to $55 billion worth of consumer car loans to Bank of America over the next five years.
The move follows downgrades in May of G.M.'s debt to a rating of below investment grade, or junk, by Standard & Poor's and Fitch. Those downgrades and rising interest rates have made it more expensive for G.M.'s financing division, the General Motors Acceptance Corporation, to use bonds to raise money for car loans. But G.M.A.C., as the financing division is known, does have more palatable options available, like selling off large numbers of car loans in a relatively new kind of transaction known as a whole loan sale.
The Simon Property Group, one of the biggest real estate and shopping mall developers in the United States, said Tuesday that it had formed a partnership with Morgan Stanley and a state-owned Chinese company to develop about a dozen shopping centers in China.
The companies did not disclose their investment in the shopping centers, all of which would be anchored by Wal-Mart outlets. But analysts said the projects could cost as much as $700 million to develop, which would make the deal one of the largest foreign real estate investments ever made in China.
BMW of North America, which last year purchased office property in Woodcliff Lake, N.J., from the Ingersoll-Rand Company to expand its own headquarters there, will begin construction of an ''environmentally sensitive'' building on the property some time next year, according to the division's chief executive, Tom Purves.
Mr. Purves said his company chose the New York architecture firm HOK, formerly known as Hellmuth, Obata & Kassabaum, to design a training and engineering center, after an ''intense international competition.'' Mr. Purves said he was thrilled with a preliminary rendering of a low-slung, modernistic glass-and-steel structure that hugs the contour of the land.
Hollywood's major film studios are expected to announce on Wednesday that they have agreed to new technical standards that will make it easier for movie theaters to show digitally produced movies, according to two studio executives apprised of the announcement.
For years Hollywood has discussed how to create and distribute digital films with little success, in part because the parties could not agree on a standard technology for projectors or on who would pay to replace the equipment. Movie theater owners did not want to foot the bill, fearing the $100,000 projectors would become obsolete without a consensus about the standards. The movie industry, for its part, has resisted paying to replace projectors because studios do not own the theaters.
TV Guide previewed a new design yesterday as the magazine looks to stem its declining advertising and circulation in recent years.
In October, the book-sized title will become full-size, and every page will have color. And instead of being 75 percent television listings and 25 percent feature articles, it will be the other way around, said the magazine's parent company, Gemstar-TV Guide International.
I.B.M. introduced a new line of mainframe computer yesterday that is not only twice as powerful as its predecessor but also aims to make it easier for corporations to encrypt vast amounts of customer information and to bundle the workloads of many smaller computers onto an I.B.M. mainframe.
The new line, called the z9, is the result of a three-year, $1.2 billion development effort involving 5,000 I.B.M. engineers. Maintaining the health of the mainframe business, which accounts for a small percentage of the company's revenues these days, is still important to I.B.M. The big machines, which typically cost several million dollars, pull in a lot of other business for I.B.M., including sales of software, services, financing and other hardware, like storage systems, analysts say.
Sun Microsystems reported earnings on Tuesday that outpaced Wall Street expectations for the quarter. But the company's revenue continued to fall, indicating that the computer maker has yet to achieve a turnaround.
One of the highest fliers of the dot-com boom, Sun's revenue has collapsed in the last five years and it has been hunting for a path to growth while waiting for a rebound in demand among its biggest corporate customers.
At ''Z'' Frank Chevrolet, it takes a little more spice to sell a Chevy these days.
On a recent Saturday, salsa music blared from a radio near the showroom's entrance. Children watched a movie on Telemundo, the Spanish-language television station. Sales representatives wearing Tommy Bahama shirts conversed in Spanish with potential buyers.
For the 25 years that Tad LaFountain has been a technology stock analyst on Wall Street, he has often written negatively about the strategies or prospects of the companies he followed. Not once did a company retaliate, he said.
Until now.
The Royal Bank of Scotland, one of the world's biggest banks, is considering investing about $2.5 billion to acquire a stake in the Bank of China, according to a person briefed on the discussions.
The investment, which could be announced in weeks, would be one of the largest foreign investments ever in a Chinese bank, and the latest in a series of big overseas investments in the troubled but potentially lucrative state-owned sector.
Profit at Honda Motor fell 3.1 percent in the latest quarter on derivatives losses, but sales rose in all its major markets and the company raised its profit outlook for the financial year.
Honda, the third-largest automaker in Japan, said net profit slipped to 111 billion yen ($1.02 billion) in the three months through June. The drop was largely a result of losses in financial derivatives Honda had bought to hedge against currency risk.
Delta Air Lines shares plunged yesterday on a fresh warning by its chief executive that its reorganization plan was not shielding it from brutal competition, and that the airline would have to do more to avoid seeking bankruptcy protection.
The bleak words, contained in a memo to employees from Delta's chief executive, Gerald Grinstein, echoed comments that Mr. Grinstein made last week when Delta announced a $382 million loss for the second quarter. Including its second-quarter loss, Delta has lost nearly $10 billion since the year 2000.
Some weeks, José Edgardo Andrande makes less than $200. Other weeks, his pay tops $1,200. ''But then it goes down to $500'' the next week, said Mr. Andrande, 42, a job hopper from El Salvador who, for 24 years, has shuffled among delivery, electrician, restaurant and construction jobs in the United States.
Despite the fluctuations, one financial transaction has remained constant. Each month he sends $700 home to support his two sons and mother in his native San Salvador.
Sales of new homes and orders for durable goods rose faster than expected last month, the government reported yesterday, providing more indications that the economy is expanding at a brisk pace.
Separately, the Federal Reserve said that the economic expansion had picked up steam and that inflation remained at bay in June and early July.
Wal-Mart Stores filed a suit yesterday against Thomas M. Coughlin, a former vice chairman, seeking to void his retirement package and to recover funds the company said he fraudulently siphoned from the company.
The lawsuit, filed in Benton County Circuit Court in Arkansas, came after Wal-Mart sent a letter last month to Mr. Coughlin's lawyers, accusing him of ''a scheme to misappropriate corporate funds and property for his own personal benefit.''
Sanford I. Weill told Citigroup employees yesterday that he now planned to stay on as chairman until his scheduled retirement next April, ending an internal debate that spilled outside the bank over his plans to leave and start a private equity fund.
''It has hurt me to read speculation that in pursuing any new venture, I might somehow find myself competing with Citigroup or acting contrary to the company's interests,'' Mr. Weill said in a memorandum to employees. ''Nothing could be further from my mind. I care deeply about this company and its people. As a founder of this company, the success we have achieved together has been the highlight of my career.''
When Morgan Stanley directors received a letter from a group of retired executives who argued for the ouster of Philip J. Purcell, their first call for help went to the superlawyer Martin Lipton.
Already on the payroll as an adviser to the board on governance, Mr. Lipton quickly donned a number of other legal hats -- advising the board, Mr. Purcell and the company itself on tactics, legalities and, most controversially, severance pay to departing executives.
THE lawyer solemnly told regulators it would be far too costly for a mutual fund to seek appraisals of its assets, and no appraisals were made. When employees of the investment firm suspected something was amiss, they were reassured when a government auditor pored over the books and concluded that all was well.
And so the fraud continued for more than a decade. It later turned out that the assets sold to investors were largely fictitious, and that the supposed auditor, who presented credentials showing she worked for the California Department of Corporations, was in reality an actress hired by the man running the fraud.
Late last year, in hotel rooms and photo studios in Los Angeles, New York and London, a group of celebrities agreed to get doused with buckets of coffee, milk, cocoa and sugar. It was messy, sticky and sometimes smelly, but it was all in the name of easing world poverty.
The photo shoots were organized by the nonprofit advocacy group Oxfam America as part of an ad campaign to raise awareness of what they say is the unfair nature of agricultural subsidies. The campaign urges wealthy nations like the United States and European countries to stop dumping agricultural products onto the world market, which Oxfam argues makes it impossible for farmers in poor countries to compete.
It was just before midnight on Wednesday when Representative Robin Hayes capitulated.
Mr. Hayes, a Republican whose district in North Carolina has lost thousands of textile jobs in the last four years, had defied President Bush and House Republican leaders by voting against the Central American Free Trade Agreement, or Cafta.
THE troubled Interpublic Group of Companies, struggling on several fronts, suddenly finds itself fighting to hold onto one of its biggest clients, Bank of America.
The Bank of America Corporation, which uses more than a dozen Interpublic agencies for tasks like advertising, direct marketing, media buying and interactive campaigns, has contacted Interpublic's biggest competitors, the Omnicom Group and the WPP Group, about the possibility of their agencies coming to work for the company. Interpublic is the third-largest agency company in revenue, behind Omnicom and WPP.
How much does GQ magazine like the new movie ''The Dukes of Hazzard?'' Enough to feature two stars from the film on its cover in successive months. The July issue had Jessica Simpson, who plays Daisy Duke, and the August cover has Johnny Knoxville, who plays Luke Duke. The movie opens on Friday.
The magazine said that the two pictures were more coincidence than anything else. Jim Nelson, the editor in chief, explained that the cover with Mr. Knoxville is GQ's ''official 'Dukes of Hazzard' cover.'' The editors wanted Ms. Simpson for July's cover because they were doing a special issue on America and ''she was the perfect face for it.''
The board of Cnooc, the Chinese oil company, is planning to decide early this week whether to raise its bid for Unocal or abandon its takeover effort, executives close to the company said over the weekend.
Several members of Cnooc's board and management have expressed doubts in recent days about the wisdom of continuing to pursue the bid in the face of mounting opposition in Washington, but it remained unclear yesterday which way the board would vote.
At the height of Watergate, five people at The Washington Post were subpoenaed, including the reporters Bob Woodward and Carl Bernstein, who were ordered to turn over their notes. In an attempt to stymie prosecutors, The Post transferred some of those notes to Katharine Graham, the paper's publisher, who also had been subpoenaed.
Mrs. Graham later wrote in her memoir that Benjamin C. Bradlee, the paper's executive editor, had said of the maneuver: ''And if the judge wants to send anyone to jail, he's going to have to send Mrs. Graham. And, my God, the lady says she'll go! Then the judge can have that on his conscience.''
Medtronic said yesterday that it had received its long-awaited clearance from European regulators to market its drug-coated Endeavor heart stent.
The approval opens the door for Medtronic to compete with Boston Scientific and Johnson & Johnson in one of the medical device industry's largest and most lucrative markets. It also clears the way for Medtronic to begin marketing Endeavor in many other countries that follow Europe's regulatory lead on medical devices, including Singapore, Malaysia, South Africa, Mexico and several Persian Gulf nations.
Is it time for media companies to finally grow up?
Movie theater attendance is caught in a two-year downward spiral. Sales of DVD's, once the growth engine for the entertainment business, are slowing. And worse, more advertising is going to the Web, where companies can better quantify consumer reaction to commercials.
Willem F. Duisenberg, the blunt-spoken Dutch central banker who oversaw the introduction of the euro as the first president of the European Central Bank, was found dead on Sunday in a swimming pool at his villa in the south of France, the French government said. He was 70.
An autopsy showed that Mr. Duisenberg drowned after unspecified heart trouble. He ''died a natural death, due to drowning, after a cardiac problem,'' said Jean-François Sanpieri, a state official near the village of Faucon, where Mr. Duisenberg had his villa.
FROM the jolly back-and-forth between Continental Airlines executives and Boeing executives at the Newark airport last week, it was evident to me that a good-size sum of money was about to change hands somewhere.
Officially, Boeing was present in the huge Continental hangar to give the New York news media a look at its newest long-haul plane, the 777-200LR, which will enter commercial service next year. One of the planes, on a 20-city world demonstration tour, was on display.
The Bush administration announced plans Monday to seek a broad agreement with China to limit its clothing exports to the United States.
The announcement was a partial payoff of promises that the administration made last week to House Republicans from Alabama and North Carolina to win approval of the Central American Free Trade Agreement. But some trade experts said the announcement was broader than they had expected and could lead to higher prices for socks, shirts, skirts, trousers, swimwear and many other categories of clothing.
Nokia, the world's largest mobile phone company, put an end to succession questions on Monday when it named one of its top executives, Olli-Pekka Kallasvuo, to replace its longtime chief, Jorma Ollila.
Mr. Kallasvuo, 52, is currently the head of Nokia's biggest group, the mobile phone business. He will become president and chief operating officer of the entire company in October, and chief executive in June 2006, the company said in a statement. A 25-year Nokia veteran and former chief financial officer, Mr. Kallasvuo has helped shore up the company's faltering market share since he took over the mobile phone business in January of last year.
Mahathir Mohamad, Malaysia's cantankerous former prime minister, is back at center stage. With his successor trying to end the import restrictions that have sheltered the national carmaker Mr. Mahathir helped create, he has accused the government of cronyism in issuing auto import licenses.
The unusually public feud comes as the government of Prime Minister Abdullah Ahmad Badawi tries to overhaul the country's state-controlled national carmaker, Perusahaan Otomobil Nasional, or Proton, and to provide greater foreign competition.
When Leon Thomas moved his company's headquarters across Omaha last month, one of his top priorities was to get improved high-speed data lines so his company, which helps clients manage their online strategies, could keep expanding.
Like most corporate clients, Mr. Thomas called the regional Bell company, Qwest Communications, and Alltel, another fixed-line phone carrier. Then he did what a growing number of small business owners are doing: he called his local cable provider, Cox Communications, to compare prices, services and installation times.
The board of Cnooc, the Chinese oil company, had one thing right: its bid to buy an American oil company was killed by political opposition.
Lawmakers in Congress, with tacit support from the Bush administration, managed to raise enough objections to Cnooc's bid for Unocal to make most investors doubt that the deal would ever pass muster in Washington.
Jamie Niven, the vice chairman of Sotheby's auction house, was having an unusual problem. He could not give away a new car.
Mr. Niven was responsible for dispensing with a Ford Mustang that was a door prize at the Robin Hood Ball, a charity event in New York that is dominated by wealthy hedge fund managers. But the accountant who initially won it in a raffle immediately donated it back. When Mr. Niven tried to auction it, those winners did the same. Finally, Mr. Niven insisted on giving the Mustang to the next bidder for $50,000. The car brought in a total of $390,000.
WHAT'S the best-selling piece of personal electronics on earth? What's more popular than computers, camcorders, digital cameras or even iPods?
It's the cellphone. Cellphone sales dwarf everything else. According to the Gartner research firm, 40 percent of the earth's population will be carrying cellphones by 2009. Developing countries are skipping thelandline phase altogether, going from no phones to wireless ones.
Jeanne Yanaro long associated 7-Eleven with Big Gulps and last-minute groceries. But late last year she turned to her local convenience store for a more substantial purchase: a cellular phone.
''It would have been the last place I'd have thought to go for a phone,'' said Ms. Yanaro, a marketing manager who lives in Chelmsford, Mass.
In recent decades, millions of working-age Mexicans have entered the United States. Most of them have come illegally, taking jobs on the bottom rungs of the American labor market.
While much of the attention remains on the persistent inflow of illegal workers, a new question is beginning to worry some analysts and policy makers on both sides of the border: What will happen when the 10 million Mexicans living in the United States become too old to work? Will they retire in the United States or will they return to Mexico?
Microsoft plucked its new chief operating officer yesterday from Wal-Mart, a kindred corporate giant that shares the challenge of finding new growth despite its size and market dominance.
The executive, Kevin Turner, 40, had a 19-year career at Wal-Mart, where he rose quickly through the management ranks to become the retailer's chief information officer and, most recently, the chief executive of Sam's Club, the company's warehouse club division.
A fierce-looking banner strung between two trees in this hillside town on the Black Sea sums up how the locals here feel about the steel factory that is their principal employer: ''Erdemir is our sweat,'' it proclaims. ''Each of us would die for it.''
Turkey recently put this state-controlled company, its biggest steel maker, on the auction block.
Standing 60 feet above sea level on this oil platform 130 miles southeast of New Orleans, Rab Bruce pointed to where the huge wave slammed into a tangle of grated steel and multicolor pipes.
''I was just in shock at the damage,'' said Mr. Bruce, a longtime field coordinator on Chevron's Petronius deepwater platform, which was hit by a 90-foot wave during Hurricane Ivan last September. ''I had never seen anything like this. Everything was busted, dangling and messed up.''
Ten years ago, Alan Greenspan, the Federal Reserve chairman, broke with conventional wisdom and correctly recognized that the United States had entered an era of faster growth in productivity.
It was a huge shift that allowed the Fed to encourage faster economic growth and increased prosperity without significant inflation.
As it does every Father's Day, Real Men Cook, a charity devoted to encouraging African-American men to stay involved with their families, held its annual street fair this June in about a dozen cities across the country.
Amid the grills and stoves serving up delicacies, corporate sponsors like State Farm Insurance and Volvo were on hand, seeking to entice new customers. And in eight of the cities, handing out pens, balloons and T-shirts from its booth, was a company that does not sell anything to the public -- Nielsen Media Research, the television ratings arbiter.
When Jim Jacobs hears a ''ding'' coming from his desktop computer, he thinks about discount air fares like the $122 ticket he recently bought for a flight from Tampa to Baltimore on Southwest Airlines.
Several times a day, Southwest sends Mr. Jacobs and hundreds of thousands of other computer users discounts through a new application called Ding, a free program that links the airline directly to passengers in a novel way.
LET me stipulate right away that while I fully appreciate what a great hotel is, and have in fact stayed in a good many luxury brands, my own requirements for a night away from home consist of a bed, electricity, a bathroom with running water and darkness at night.
''You're essentially talking about a cave,'' my wife told me. ''You have the same requirements in overnight lodging as Osama Bin Laden.''
A dispute between the Interpublic Group of Companies and Bruce Nelson, the senior executive who oversees one of its biggest accounts, has become public, not long after the account was placed in review.
For several weeks, there had been speculation that Mr. Nelson, who since 2002 has overseen the work that 16 Interpublic agencies do for the Bank of America Corporation, was seeking to leave his post as executive vice president and chief marketing officer. But no one would discuss the matter publicly until Friday, a week after the bank announced the review. Mr. Nelson then told Adweek.com that he would resign over what he termed a disagreement in principle about how the account ought to be managed.
Regulators accused two former Citigroup executives of securities fraud yesterday, contending that they shortchanged mutual fund investors by denying them certain discounts.
The Securities and Exchange Commission sued the two executives, Thomas W. Jones and Lewis E. Daidone, over Citigroup's creation of a transfer agent to serve its Smith Barney family of mutual funds at steeply discounted rates. Rather than pass the discounts to the funds' shareholders, Citigroup reaped $128 million in profits over five years. Lawyers for the two men said they would fight the lawsuit.
The chief lobbyist for Delta Air Lines, who has led the airline's fight for pension overhaul legislation in Washington, retired last week, Delta said yesterday. The airline's treasurer also resigned.
Delta said its senior vice president for government affairs, D. Scott Yohe, retired Aug. 1 after 26 years with the company. Mr. Yohe, 52, will become a consultant and remain as the airline's top Washington representative, a job he has held for 17 years, a Delta spokeswoman, Chris Kelly, said.
The Whirlpool Corporation yesterday raised its bid for the Maytag Corporation, its competitor in the appliance market, to $1.62 billion in cash and stock.
The offer, which works out to $20 a share, tops both Whirlpool's most recent $18-a-share proposal and the all-cash bid of $14 a share that Maytag originally accepted from an investment group led by Ripplewood Holdings, the private equity firm. Whirlpool had until today to raise its offer.
JOHN PUTZIER figures he loses money every time he drives his 2001 Infiniti QX4 on a business trip. The standard reimbursement of 40.5 cents a mile can't keep pace with soaring gas prices, insurance bills and maintenance, he says.
Yet Mr. Putzier, a human resources consultant in Prospect, Pa., in Butler County near Pittsburgh, says some clients pay him as little as 27.5 cents a mile.
The process of approving drugs, with the huge bets placed on their outcome, has always been a fertile ground for potential insider trading. A hint of success in a clinical trial can send shares of a biotechnology company surging.
The best-known example is that of Samuel D. Waksal, the former chief executive of ImClone Systems, who pleaded guilty to charges that he tipped off family members to sell shares shortly before an unfavorable regulatory ruling.
It is known in the news business as an advance obituary -- a report that can be published or broadcast on short notice should an important figure die on deadline.
Yet, as it became clear to his closest colleagues at ABC News that Peter Jennings appeared to be losing his battle with lung cancer, the network chose not to begin assembling an extended video compilation in anticipation of his death.
Directors of the Walt Disney Company may have dodged a bullet, but battles over executive compensation -- and especially supersize severance agreements -- are here to stay.
After yesterday's ruling that Disney directors did not violate duties to shareholders when they allowed the hiring, firing and payment of $140 million in severance to Michael S. Ovitz, the company's onetime president, the relief in corporate boardrooms was palpable.
This summer, Omar Maldonado and Erik Simonsen, both students at the Leonard N. Stern School of Business at New York University, did something different.
Bypassing internship opportunities on Wall Street, just a subway ride away from their Greenwich Village campus, they went to India to spend the summer at an outsourcing company in Gurgaon, a suburb of New Delhi.
Merrill Lynch & Company agreed last week to pay $37 million to settle a claim that it had been shortchanging people for years. But the plaintiffs were not the firm's customers. They were its own stockbrokers.
Merrill has treated its brokers, who earn the bulk of their income from sales commissions, as if they were exempt from state and federal laws on overtime pay. But a suit filed last year on behalf of the firm's brokers in California argued that the brokers should be paid overtime when they work more than 8 hours in a day or 40 in a week.
WHEN it comes to attitudes toward high-definition TV, you can pretty much divide the world into three camps. Group A thinks HDTV is the greatest invention since the microwave, and counts the hours until the nation's transition to HDTV is complete. Group B thinks that HDTV is an enormous boondoggle, a bald-faced government-industry conspiracy to milk the citizenry for billions.
And Group C would just like somebody to explain what HDTV is.
When Cnooc, the Chinese government-owned oil company, dropped its bid to buy Unocal this month, it said political opposition in Washington had scuttled the plan. The question oil companies now face is whether they might suffer similar political retribution in their own dealings with foreign governments.
The fate of Unocal was finally settled yesterday when a majority of the company's shareholders approved a takeover offer from Chevron worth about $18 billion. The battle has left a bitter taste among many in the oil and gas industry because of the hostility displayed by lawmakers and the consequences this might have for United States oil companies worldwide.
Workers at a landfill in Orange County, Calif. -- as if tamping down the contents of a wastebasket -- regularly pile one million cubic yards of dirt atop a football field-size section of the giant dump. Six months later, the workers scrape the dirt aside and the dump's surface has fallen 30 to 40 feet, making space for yet more trash.
''It's just amazing,'' said Mike Giancola, deputy director of the county's waste agency.
An investigation by federal prosecutors into sales of questionable tax shelters took a decisive turn yesterday as a former bank executive pleaded guilty to charges of conspiracy, fraud and tax evasion.
The plea is significant because it appears to involve the first criminal charges brought by the government in its investigation of tax shelters sold by KPMG, one of the four largest accounting firms that remain after the conviction and collapse of Arthur Andersen in 2002.
HOW irresponsible does an outside director have to be before he or she faces legal responsibility for nonperformance of duties?
Very, very irresponsible.
Brand-extension mania has seized Maxim, the men's magazine. Maxim already sells a line of bedding at Macy's stores, and Maxim Radio, the first around-the-clock radio station based on a magazine, started broadcasting in January on Sirius.
Now, in an attempt to imprint the Maxim name on the minds of party animals everywhere, the magazine is hooking up with Rande and Scott Gerber, they of hip club-and-bar fame, to develop Maxim-branded lounges in major cities across the country.
There will be a 100th birthday party in New York for the entertainment trade magazine Variety, but not all of the publication's managers are invited.
The celebration, planned for Sept. 24 at Sardi's, the venerable Manhattan show business haunt, is limited mainly to ''people who worked at Variety in the 'Silverman era,''' according to Syd Silverman, who sold the publication in 1987. Anyone hired after 1987, including the current editor, Peter Bart, is not on the guest list.
The Boston Red Sox's recent edge over the New York Yankees appears to extend to the digital domain. And George Steinbrenner probably can't do anything about it. Last week, the sports publisher Street & Smith's released its ranking of professional sports Web sites, and in the baseball category the Red Sox led the major leagues while the Yankees were near the cellar -- in 27th place among 30 teams.
The ratings, published by Street & Smith's Sports Business Journal, were drawn from a study by the Isenberg School of Management at the University of Massachusetts at Amherst, which evaluated the sites according to content, design, fan engagement and merchandise for sale.
Rosemary Goudreau, the editorial page editor of The Tampa Tribune, has received the same e-mail message a dozen times over the last year.
''Did you know that 47 countries have re-established their embassies in Iraq?'' the anonymous polemic asks, in part. ''Did you know that 3,100 schools have been renovated?''
At Employees Only, a trendy bar and restaurant in the West Village of Manhattan, the good-looking, stylishly attired bartenders do not serve Budweiser. Nor do they sling bottles of Miller, Amstel Light, Heineken or any of the usual well-known beers.
The reason, says a co-owner, Dushan Zaric, is that most beers do not have the rich taste or sophisticated image his customers are looking for. Most drinks ordered at Employees Only come from the wine list and cocktail menu, which feature concoctions like a ginger smash and a Mata Hari with vermouth and Courvoisier.
Agilent Technologies plans to announce a major reorganization today, including the sale of its semiconductor business, a spinoff of its chip testing unit and a major share buyback program, executives close to the company said.
Over the weekend, Agilent, which was spun off from Hewlett-Packard in 1999, was working out the details of an agreement to sell the semiconductor business to two private equity firms, Kohlberg Kravis Roberts and Silver Lake Partners, for about $2.66 billion, the executives said.
At first, the calls seemed innocuous. Investment companies were offering Dr. Ronald B. Natale $200 or $300 for 15 minutes, asking that he discuss general trends in lung cancer, sometimes over the telephone.
But Dr. Natale became suspicious as the money offers kept growing, just before he was to present the case for Iressa, a new lung cancer drug, to a Food and Drug Administration advisory panel in September 2002. Dr. Natale's access to research data on Iressa made him an attractive source for investment researchers seeking inside information.
Like an expectant father, Jason Garst stood in calf-deep water and studied the three-foot-high rice plants growing in a flooded field here.
It was a curious sight in northwest Missouri, where the growing season is considered to be too short for rice. Mr. Garst, a sixth-generation farmer, is hoping at least one of the 12 varieties on his test plot will sprout this fall. If one does, he will start growing rice plants that have been genetically engineered to produce proteins found in human milk, saliva and tears. Once converted into a powder form, those proteins would be used in granola bars and drinks to help infants in developing countries avoid death from diarrhea.
Carl C. Icahn is relishing his new reputation as a friend of shareholders.
''I haven't changed my beliefs about the mediocrity of many corporate managers,'' said Mr. Icahn, 69, who made his name in the 1980's going after the chief executives of companies like Texaco and Marshall Field. ''What's changed is the perception. Now, instead of being called a corporate raider, I'm an activist.''
Madison Avenue is increasingly interested in using everyday women in advertising instead of just waifish supermodels.
The change comes after the Dove line of personal-care products sold by Unilever introduced what it called a ''campaign for real beauty,'' which presents women in advertisements as they are rather than as some believe they ought to be.
Record oil prices are beginning to slow the economy, according to several reports released yesterday, but expansion continued in July because of the housing market and demand from businesses and consumers.
The reports said inflation grew faster than expected, industrial production slowed in July and home construction took a slight breather. But the consumer generally remained resilient.
John J. Mack, in his first major step to address the woes of Morgan Stanley's retail business, has hired James P. Gorman, the former retail chief at Merrill Lynch, to be president and chief operating officer of the individual investor group.
Mr. Gorman, 47, will report to Zoe Cruz, the acting president of Morgan Stanley.
Mary Ann Davies has spent more than $100,000 in the last year to send her 16-year-old daughter to one private counseling and educational program after another. She has just signed up to go further into debt, committing herself to spend another $100,000 over the next two years for a boarding school in New York that she hopes will help her daughter overcome a drug problem.
''We're saving this life,'' said Ms. Davies, who works in advertising in Richmond, Va. ''You can't put a price on that.''
Citing high oil prices, Wal-Mart, the nation's largest retailer, announced its smallest quarterly profit growth in four years yesterday and warned that its third-quarter earnings would fall short of analyst estimates, disappointing Wall Street.
The company said that second-quarter earnings rose 5.8 percent, to $2.8 billion, or 67 cents a share, compared with $2.7 billion, or 62 cents a share, in the quarter a year earlier.
Inflation surged last month, the government reported yesterday, as the long rise in energy prices finally seemed to be pinching the American economy. After absorbing the burden of oil at $40 a barrel, then at $50 and beyond, consumers have started to react as prices have risen above $60 in recent weeks.
Wal-Mart blamed high oil prices yesterday as it reported that in the recent quarter its profits rose at their slowest rate in four years. The chief executive, H. Lee Scott Jr., told investors that expensive oil was worrying him because it seemed to be erasing recent income gains for many customers.
The accounting firm KPMG is quietly putting the boxing gloves back on. Even as KPMG is in discussions with federal prosecutors to settle a criminal investigation over its sale of what the Internal Revenue Service says are bogus tax shelters, the firm has been taking on former clients who have sued it over those same shelters.
Among those former clients are two wealthy sons of Robert C. McNair, a Houston oilman and the owner of the Houston Texans of the National Football League. The McNair brothers, R. Cary and D. Calhoun, sued KPMG in a state court in Houston in December 2003, contending that the firm in 1999 knowingly sold them bogus tax shelters.
With its offer of employee discounts to the public, General Motors addressed its short-term woes: it had two months of robust sales and cleared out its bloated inventory.
But the fire sale did not solve G.M.'s fundamental problems, which raises the question of whether this former bulwark of American industry faces the prospect of bankruptcy.
Google said in a surprise move on Thursday that it would raise a $4 billion war chest with a new stock offering. The announcement stirred widespread speculation in Silicon Valley that Google, the premier online search site, would move aggressively into businesses well beyond Web searching and search-based advertising.
Google, which raised $1.67 billion in its initial public offering last August, expects to collect $4.04 billion by selling 14,159,265 million Class A shares, based on Wednesday's closing price of $285.10. In Google's whimsical fashion, the number of shares offered is the same as the first eight digits after the decimal point in pi, the ratio of the circumference of a circle to its diameter, which starts with 3.14159265.
During the nine years he spent as publisher of one of America's largest newspapers, F. David Radler kept largely out of public view. For one thing, his position atop The Chicago Sun-Times was only one of several roles he played as the president of Hollinger International, a large newspaper publishing company, and he spent most of his time at his home in Vancouver, British Columbia.
But even when he was in Chicago, which was roughly a third of the time, his main focus at The Sun-Times was on increasing profit and cutting costs.
Every morning, afternoon and evening for the last few days, groups of airline mechanics, accompanied by security guards, stride out of the Hyatt Regency hotel here. They board a pair of yellow school buses, the windows taped over with white paper to hide who is inside.
Seconds later, the buses chug off for their destination: Northwest Airlines' operations at Detroit Metropolitan Airport, 10 miles away.
No languid August afternoons this year for executives at the drug maker Bristol-Myers Squibb.
Instead, the company's management is frenetically preparing for the week after Labor Day.
State and federal officials in Connecticut are investigating the possible collapse of the Bayou Group, a hedge fund and brokerage firm in Stamford that managed an estimated $400 million for its investors, according to two people briefed on the investigation.
Clients of the Bayou Group apparently grew concerned about the firm's status in recent days, when refund checks it had sent to customers could not be drawn upon for lack of funds, one of the two people briefed on the investigation said. In addition, telephones at Bayou went unanswered.
Beyond the highly visible labor confrontation taking place between Northwest Airlines and its striking mechanics' union is another shadow battle that has nothing to do with wages or benefits.
As the strike presses on with no resolution in sight, it has become increasingly clear that the critical fight to be won for either Northwest or its mechanics is the battle for consumer trust. For the airline, that means convincing travelers that flying Northwest will not result in being stranded in an airport for hours while mechanics -- who the union says are rookies -- repair planes that may be unsafe.
People
Thomas E. Hassen has joined Bear, Stearns & Company as vice chairman of the global industries group in investment banking and senior managing director. His focus will be on energy companies. Mr. Hassen was previously co-chairman of the global energy group at Credit Suisse First Boston; before that, he was at Morgan Stanley for 20 years.
EVEN in finance, there aren't many certainties.
One of the few things that we do know about capital markets is that ''more money into the same strategy or asset class implies lower future returns,'' says Cliff Asness, a hedge fund manager.
Alarmed by high world oil prices and sporadic shortages of gasoline and diesel fuel in big cities this summer, China's leaders are drafting plans to impose steep taxes on cars and sport utility vehicles with gas-guzzling engines.
The taxes would add as much as 27 percent to the price of vehicles with big engines, notably sports cars and S.U.V.'s, auto industry officials and people advising the government on the plan said. At the same time, taxes may be cut slightly for models with the smallest, most efficient engines, though the details of these cuts are still under discussion, they said.
MOST corporate marketers would be overjoyed if consumers considered their brand to be a loyal, reliable, trustworthy old friend.
Not Carl E. Gustin, Eastman Kodak's marketing chief. He wants Kodak to be not just warm and fuzzy, but cool. Or, more to the point, Antonio M. Perez, the Kodak chief executive who jumped over from Hewlett-Packard two years ago, wants Kodak to be cool.
Louis Cona, the publisher of Vanity Fair, will leave his post to be the new publisher of The New Yorker, Condé Nast Publications announced yesterday. Mr. Cona will take over for David Carey, who Condé Nast said Wednesday would run a new group that includes a business magazine and Web site.
Alan Katz, the publisher of Cargo, will take over the publisher's job at Vanity Fair. Both changes are to take effect next month.
A former Lehman Brothers investment manager pleaded guilty in federal court yesterday to conspiring to launder $11 million in drug proceeds for the governor of a state in Mexico who was a fugitive from justice there.
Consuelo Marquez, who worked as an investment representative at Lehman from 1995 to 2000, was a financial adviser to Mario Villanueva Madrid when he was the governor of Quintana Roo on the Yucatán Peninsula. During his tenure, Mr. Villanueva was investigated by the Mexican federal police on suspicion that he was using state law enforcement officers to protect shipments of Colombian cocaine that were moving across his state, a major transit point on the drug route to the United States.
IF housing prices fall, will mortgages cushion the decline, or make it worse? Put another way, will more overstretched homeowners be forced to sell?
At issue is whether financial innovations that have made it easier for Americans to buy homes have also made the system less stable and more subject to shocks that could drive many from their homes.
The European Commission cleared Johnson & Johnson's planned $25.4 billion takeover of the medical equipment maker Guidant after the companies agreed to sell some of their businesses, the commission said Thursday.
The approval eliminated one of the main regulatory obstacles facing the proposed deal, but the combination still faces an antitrust inquiry by the Federal Trade Commission in the United States, expected to be concluded in October, the companies said.
His job title alone makes Josef Ackermann an imposing figure in German industry and politics. But when Mr. Ackermann travels to New York or London, he must grapple with the reality that Deutsche Bank remains a bantam among global heavyweights like Citigroup or HSBC.
Ranked by sales and assets, Deutsche Bank sits comfortably among the world's 10 largest banks. But with a market capitalization of $47.8 billion, it ranks 28th, behind Société Générale of France.
The 2006 models of large sport utility vehicles and pickup trucks by General Motors have barely hit the market, but the company said yesterday that it would start using employee discount offers to ensure that they sell.
Some analysts saw the move as the latest sign that America's appetite for gas guzzlers, like G.M.'s Chevrolet Suburban and Cadillac Escalade, is beginning to wane as fuel prices rise. The move was also something of a reversal for G.M., which has suggested in the past that employee discounts will largely be used to clear out its 2005 models, while 2006 models will be shifted to a new strategy using lower sticker prices.
TALK about making up for lost time. Almost eight years after its last advertising campaign, New York magazine plans to start one that will change contents almost every day.
The centerpiece of the campaign, which carries the theme ''This is New York,'' will be posters at five subway stations in Manhattan that are to be replaced each weekday. (The poster pasters will get a break on weekends.) The stations are Columbus Circle, 42nd Street-Times Square, Pennsylvania Station-34th Street, 68th Street and Spring Street.
Two years after trying to scrub Martha Stewart the person out of Martha Stewart the brand, Martha Stewart the business has a new strategy: Martha Stewart every day.
''I always disagreed with the separation of the name and the brand and the person,'' Ms. Stewart said, with a bit of a laugh at the fact that she is all three. ''To build on that name and brand is one thing. To divorce the name and the brand from the person was not an approach that I agreed with.''
Kyle Lewis, 25, missed going to church one Sunday last month. But he did not miss the sermon.
Mr. Lewis, who regularly attends services of the National Community Church in Alexandria, Va., listened to the sermon while he was at the gym, through a recording he had downloaded to his iPod. Instead of listening to the rock music his gym usually plays, he heard his pastor's voice.
The ''whole scrambled-egg episode,'' as Julius R. Nasso colorfully calls it, began in 2002.
Mr. Nasso, a film producer, filed a $60 million suit against the action film star Steven Seagal, his producing partner for 15 years, for failing to appear in four films.
In June, Yu Youjun, the executive deputy governor of Hunan Province, came to lunch accompanied by 16 dignitaries at the home in Beverly Hills of Sumner M. Redstone, the Viacom chairman.
Viacom, like many other American media companies, is already active in China. Its MTV network is carried in 10 million homes in Guangdong Province. Two-hour blocks of Nickelodeon programming like ''CatDog'' and ''Wild Thornberries'' are beamed on the government-run CCTV to more than 120 million homes.
A FEW weeks ago on ''Entourage,'' HBO's series about a rising Hollywood star named Vince Chase and the posse of former Queens buddies he runs with, the plot involved a media antagonist conspiring to complicate his career. So who would don the villain's mustache and threaten Vince's starring role in an ''Aquaman'' movie? Perhaps a reporter or columnist from Variety, The Hollywood Reporter or Entertainment Weekly?
Nah. It was some geek named R.J. whose comics Web site gets a million hits a day.
When more than 100 partners of Coudert Brothers, one of the oldest law firms in New York, gathered for their annual meeting in a ballroom at the Hotel Pierre in December 1987, they had reason to celebrate: the firm was about to open an office in Moscow, putting the first foreign lawyers in the Soviet Union, then in the early days of glasnost.
''They were all screaming and cheering,'' recalled Tom Brislin, a partner at Coudert at the time.
The apparent collapse of the Bayou Group, the Connecticut hedge fund manager, has attracted scrutiny to the Hennessee Group, one of the oldest consultants in the hedge fund business.
Hennessee raised tens of millions of dollars for Bayou, people in the hedge fund business said.
Li Yuqing would fit right in on Seventh Avenue, smack in the middle of New York's garment district. Ms. Li is not hunched over a sewing machine. A soft-spoken 27-year-old college graduate trained as a clothing designer, she sits instead in a roomful of computers at a factory here and studies sketches of windbreakers, ski jackets and coats sent from design studios in New York, Paris, London, Milan and Hamburg.
Then she strokes the keys of her computer and figures out exactly how that sketch can become reality: how wide, how long and what texture every scrap of fabric must be, even what kind of stitches will be needed.
It was a hedge fund in the suburbs of Connecticut, the home of many huge hedge funds, one run by a well-connected trader. Nothing appeared amiss until the hedge fund promised last month to return investors' money and then went silent -- no money, no communications.
The fate of the more than $400 million that the fund, Bayou, said it had under management was unknown. Now, part of the mystery may be solved.
General Motors executives told financial analysts yesterday that they were making progress in their efforts to become profitable again, but that rising gas prices and continuing negotiations over labor costs were complicating the company's comeback bid.
The executives said that sales of G.M.'s large sport utility vehicles, which have been a crucial profit center, will not return to their past levels. The company is also shifting its view on gas prices. After saying for months that rising prices were not a factor in softening demand for such vehicles, they now say the prices are having an effect.
THE troubled Interpublic Group of Companies was dealt a serious blow yesterday when one of its largest clients, the Bank of America Corporation, dismissed Interpublic and shifted its consolidated account, with total spending estimated at $600 million, to the Omnicom Group.
The account shift is one of the largest in advertising in recent years. The Interpublic agencies that will be losing their assignments have worked for Bank of America -- the nation's No.2 bank behind Citibank -- since late 2002. The assignments accounted for $60 million to $65 million of the estimated $6.2 billion in revenue for Interpublic, the world's third-largest agency holding company behind Omnicom and the WPP Group.
While high-tech start-ups in a hurry to expand get most of the ink, an increasing number of entrepreneurs are choosing another path: slow growth or no growth.
Adept at using the personal touch to lure customers from the big chains, these mom-and-pop retailers typically build their businesses to the point where they are making a comfortable living, then apply the brakes. Joe Feldman, who bought an auto-repair garage named There's Only One Jeep Shop in the Los Angeles suburb of Canyon Country a year ago, says he has steadily gained business from people unhappy with the treatment they get at the local Jeep dealership five miles away.
Tiziano Colombo, an engineer from Milan, hit the road this summer, driving with his wife and in-laws in a rented van through Austria, Germany, Belgium, Holland and France.
With oil prices rising during his two-week vacation, Mr. Colombo spent $670 on diesel to fill his Ford Transit. By his arithmetic, it was still cheaper than buying train tickets for four people. The cost of traveling by car would have to nearly double, he said, before he would consider switching.
SHORTLY after I began teaching, more than 30 years ago, three friends in different cities independently sent me the same New Yorker cartoon depicting a woman introducing a man to a friend at a party. ''Mary, I'd like you to meet Marty Thorndecker,'' she began. ''He's an economist, but he's really very nice.''
Cartoons are data. That people find them amusing usually tells us something about reality. Curious about what drove responses to the economist cartoon, I began asking about the disappointed looks that appeared on people's faces when they first discovered I was an economist. Invariably they mentioned unpleasant memories of an introductory economics course. ''There were all those incomprehensible graphs,'' was a common refrain.
EVERY now and then, someone combines two technologies into a single new product, and the result is a triumphant new category that changes the industry. Clock + radio. Cellphone + camera. Music player + hard drive.
But of all possible combinations these days, few are more screamingly obvious than wireless + camera. Already, millions of people snap photos with their cellphones, then gleefully e-mail them or post them on Web sites. But why should you be satisfied with the crummy, low-resolution, bleached-out photos from cellphones? Why shouldn't you be able to have the same kind of fun with really good photos, from really good cameras?
WHERE are the plans for energy conservation? They are needed now.
The markets think that the United States will not have enough refined petroleum products to meet demand for at least a few months. The response of the government has been to relax environmental rules, which will allow more production, and to release crude oil from the Strategic Petroleum Reserve, which will do nothing to deal with inadequate refining capacity.
Thomas Middelhoff insists that he was not looking for redemption. Nor, he says, was he itching for a bigger challenge, another chief executive's title, or to see his name back in print.
But in May, three years after being forced out of the media giant Bertelsmann, he took on one of the most grueling corporate salvage jobs in Germany because, he maintained, he had no other choice.
Bernie Burkholder, dressed in scuffed tennis shoes, shorts and a dirty shirt, could have been any other shell-shocked survivor of Hurricane Katrina, desperate to find enough gas to motor out of town. Mr. Burkholder stood by a badly damaged hotel here in the coastal town of Biloxi, siphoning gas from a barrel into a pair of five-gallon plastic jugs.
Mr. Burkholder, however, was not just any passer-by. He runs the hotel, and also the casino barge, that sat beached on the sand across the street as if a wayward whale had run aground. The first floor of the casino is completely gutted, most of the windows are blown out, and the hotel's top floor is so damaged that anyone looking from across the street can see clear to the other side.
''IPOD phone.'' It has a nice ring to it, doesn't it?
You'd better believe it. When Apple announced that it was about to unveil something big, its stock price zoomed to a record high. The Gizmodo Web site posted an exhibit of no fewer than 24 different faked ''iPod phone'' photos that have circulated online. Gadget freaks worldwide went foamy at the mouth.
Hoping to become a major supplier of flu shots to the United States, GlaxoSmithKline said yesterday that it would pay $1.4 billion to acquire ID Biomedical, a Canadian vaccine maker.
The deal comes a week after Novartis offered $4.5 billion for the 58 percent of Chiron it does not already own, which would put Novartis in the vaccine business. So far, Chiron has rejected that offer as too low.
Law enforcement agencies have identified numerous fraudulent schemes related to Hurricane Katrina and its aftermath -- many soliciting ''relief funds'' illegally or luring victims to fake Web sites in the guise of legitimate charities, where credit card information is stolen or viruses are installed on users' machines.
The F.B.I., the Missouri attorney general's office and other agencies offer the following tips to avoid falling victim to such schemes:
The first inhaled form of insulin, a product that could reduce or eliminate the daily injections needed by millions of diabetics, moved closer to federal approval yesterday.
An advisory panel to the Food and Drug Administration voted 7 to 2 to recommend approval of the drug for adults with either Type 1 or Type 2 diabetes, despite some concerns about the long-term effect that inhaling insulin would have on users' lungs.
When Rolling Stone magazine published a special issue in 2004 titled ''The 500 Greatest Songs of All Time,'' some detractors noted that the list was heavily weighted toward old favorites. For example, there are 202 songs on it from the 1960's and only 21 songs from the 1990's. The No. 1 song was Bob Dylan's ''Like a Rolling Stone,'' followed by ''Satisfaction'' by the Rolling Stones and ''Imagine'' by John Lennon.
In a shot across Rolling Stone's bow, Blender magazine, which is owned by Dennis Publishing and has a circulation of 630,000, is coming out with its own list, ''The 500 Greatest Songs Since You Were Born,'' comprising only songs published after 1980. Their No. 1 song is Michael Jackson's ''Billie Jean,'' followed by ''B.O.B'' by OutKast and ''Sweet Child o' Mine'' by Guns N' Roses.
For some old-school journalists, blogging is the worst thing to hit the print medium since, well, journalism school. They may want to avert their eyes today, when Stephen B. Shepard, dean of the new Graduate School of Journalism at the City University of New York, is to name Jeff Jarvis director of the new-media program and associate professor.
Mr. Jarvis, 51, has been developing the new-media curriculum for CUNY's journalism program since last year. As part of the core curriculum, all students will be required to take at least one new-media class exploring digital journalism.
Scores of bulletin boards aimed at finding missing persons have popped up on the Internet since Hurricane Katrina hit the Gulf Coast, and two companies have built specialized search engines to help scour them.
Lycos, the 10-year-old search company based in Waltham, Mass., searches at least 20 bulletin boards and missing persons Web sites every four hours to capture data for its service (lycos.com/katrina), while Yahoo retrieves information every hour from 15 large sites and many smaller ones for its engine (news.yahoo.com/katrinahelp).
When Viacom decided to split itself into two companies, Leslie Moonves, who had revived CBS, inherited one of its more troubled properties: Showtime, the also-ran pay television network that has long trailed its rival Home Box Office.
Neither Mr. Moonves nor Thomas E. Freston, who will run the cable network and movie studio half of Viacom, particularly wanted Showtime.
WAS Katrina a man-made storm for profits?'' asked Michael Shore, a contributor at the Web site Rense.com, a few days after the hurricane had all but obliterated New Orleans and its environs. ''Just about every human being is totally unaware that technology exists now whereby weather can be used as a weapon of mass destruction.''
It's all part of a ''hideous agenda,'' Mr. Shore wrote, to gain ''total control of planet Earth.''
Fidelity Investments, Boston, part of the FMR Corporation, is featuring Sir Paul McCartney in an advertising and marketing campaign by Arnold Worldwide, Boston, part of the Arnold Worldwide Partners division of Havas. The effort, aimed at the baby boomers who were fans of the Beatles, will include a co-sponsorship by Fidelity of Sir Paul's 11-week American tour and a campaign to help school music education programs.
24/7 Real Media, New York, and Dentsu, Tokyo, the giant advertising agency company, formed a joint venture, K.K. 24-7 Search, to handle search-engine marketing services in Japan. Dentsu will own what was described as a significant minority interest in the joint venture and 24/7 will own the rest; financial terms were not disclosed. K.K. 24-7 Search will be the exclusive provider of search-engine marketing services to Dentsu's advertising clients.
Despite an exodus by hundreds of thousands of residents, and attempts to forcibly remove those remaining behind, New Orleans is no ghost town. At the Royal Sonesta Hotel on Bourbon Street, a small line formed at the front desk on Sunday.
One man, wallet splayed on a handsome wooden counter, was paying for his stay. Another waited, only to be told by the hotel's general manager, Hans U. Wandfluh, that there were no rooms available.
By destroying houses, businesses and peoples' lives, Hurricane Katrina also destroyed the tax base of the gulf region. Without homes, New Orleans cannot collect property taxes. Without tourists, it cannot collect hotel taxes. And without restaurants and stores, it cannot collect sales taxes.
And with so much in the gulf region shattered, the taxes and other revenue streams that once stood behind its municipal bonds are no longer there.
Oracle, the giant database-software maker, announced on Monday that it would pay $5.85 billion to acquire Siebel Systems, its largest competitor in the market for sales automation programs.
The deal will bolster Oracle's effort to topple its German rival SAP as the leading seller of business applications software for big corporations.
The New Orleans medical system has been devastated by Hurricane Katrina, and no one can say how many hospitals will ever reopen.
Although some local officials are calling for a central plan, decisions are likely to be based mainly on economic forces -- not necessarily on the city's health care needs. Deregulation at the state and federal level over the last few decades has meant that the main force in the hospital industry now is the invisible hand of the marketplace.
Microsoft and Time Warner have explored a variety of possible combinations of the MSN Internet portal with the America Online operation of Time Warner, including a merger of the two into a new company that would be jointly owned, according to several people involved in the talks.
The discussions were initiated by Microsoft, which has Google, its new archrival, clearly in its sights. Microsoft is trying to focus its Internet operations on its developing Web search product rather than its Web portal and Internet access business, which it no longer sees as strategically important.
The cash register at Goody's clothing store here flashed $106.01 -- for a dress shirt and three pairs of Levi's -- but as Lori Smith reached for her credit card, a nearby voice brought the transaction to a halt.
''Tell you what, why don't you let me take care of it?'' said Scott Evans, his delivery as smooth as a car salesman's as he directed Ms. Smith to a partner brandishing stacks of $1 bills.
Eric Summers saw thousands of high-stakes wagers come across his tables as a blackjack dealer and pit boss at Harrah's Casino in New Orleans. But after watching Hurricane Katrina ravage his city, Mr. Summers made the biggest bet of his life: he moved his wife and three children to Memphis, where he had no family, no job and no place to live.
''I wasn't going back to New Orleans after I saw all that damage,'' Mr. Summers said.
Mira Nair, of the Writers Guild of America, West, has something that belongs to you. The Ms. Nair in question may or may not be the sometime screenwriter and the director of ''Vanity Fair,'' ''Monsoon Wedding'' and ''Mississippi Masala.''
It is hard to be certain, unless she were to navigate to an index tucked out of sight behind a button marked Services on the wga.org Web site, scroll to a bar labeled Uncollected Monies, put her name in a search box, then fill out a claims form requiring driver's license and Social Security numbers.
He is a self-described techie, but that did not help Dr. Eugene P. Heslin harness the wonders of electronic medical records. The technology seemed too complicated and expensive for a small medical group like his six-doctor family practice in rural upstate New York.
''The large groups can afford the software,'' said Dr. Heslin, a family physician in Saugerties. ''For the onesies and twosies, small groups like ours, there is no profit margin.''
The six major Hollywood studios, hoping to gain more control over their technological destiny, have agreed to jointly finance a multimillion-dollar research laboratory to speed the development of new ways to foil movie pirates.
The new nonprofit consortium is to be called Motion Picture Laboratories Inc. -- MovieLabs for short -- and will begin operation later this year. According to Hollywood executives involved in its establishment, MovieLabs will have a budget of more than $30 million for its first two years. The idea arose out of Hollywood's contention that the consumer electronics and information technology industries are not investing heavily or quickly enough in piracy-fighting technology.
Joseph Kieta can still hardly believe his good fortune.
He is 33 years old and edits The Merced Sun-Star, a tiny daily in California's fast-growing Central Valley. The McClatchy Company bought the paper a year and a half ago, and overnight, it seems, it sprang to life.
While snaking cables are still a long way from becoming the buggy whips of the 21st century, a Silicon Valley technology company recently said that it had developed a wireless technology that might hasten their obsolescence.
Conventional wired networks that link devices like personal computers to one another and to the Internet have always been the fastest and most reliable connections. And even as high-speed wireless networking, most often dependent on Wi-Fi standards, has become increasingly popular in recent years, electronics specialists agree that the convenience comes at the cost of slower transmission speeds and less reliability.
Europe's biggest postal service, Deutsche Post, is expected to announce a 5.5 billion euro ($6.73 billion) acquisition of Exel of Britain on Monday, according to several people involved in the negotiations, as the German company continues to expand beyond mail delivery.
Exel is the world's largest logistics provider, or contractor handling the shipping, warehousing and delivery of goods and raw materials for other corporations. Its clients include DaimlerChrysler, Volkswagen and Marks & Spencer. Deutsche Post, which loses its postal monopoly in Germany in 2007 and has been seeking to diversify, already owns the shipping company DHL.
Last December, James R. Houghton, then Corning's chief executive, and Wendell P. Weeks, his heir apparent, dropped by the local chapter of the American Flint Glass Workers Union for some informal Christmas cheer.
Stephen A. Mandell Sr., president of the chapter, recalls making an offhand remark about quality problems at one of Corning's Steuben glass plants.
Reflecting the struggling state of North American automakers, the Canadian Auto Workers reached a tentative agreement with DaimlerChrysler Canada early Tuesday that eliminates about 1,600 jobs and offers only limited wage and benefit gains.
The Canadian arm of the Chrysler Group avoided a strike scheduled to start Tuesday night by abandoning a plan to contract out several services, including trucking, as well as closing a casting plant in Toronto. Those moves, the union said, would have eliminated 2,500 jobs.
The Goldman Sachs Group reported an 84 percent gain in third quarter earnings yesterday, driven by significant gains in stock and bond trading as well a surge in revenue for services offered to hedge funds.
''Everything went the right way,'' said David Viniar, chief financial officer of Goldman Sachs. ''It was a strong quarter across the board.''
Oil prices slipped Tuesday on signs that the direction of Hurricane Rita was shifting away from America's energy heartland and OPEC formally agreed to lift all restrictions on its oil sales for the next three months, in a move aimed at further reassuring markets still on edge over the security of energy supplies.
On Monday, energy prices surged 7 percent, to $67 a barrel, on worries that Hurricane Rita was headed for the main oil-producing areas of the Gulf of Mexico. The latest predictions somewhat eased those fears but still suggested that the hurricane could affect offshore facilities and refineries along the coast of Texas. Another shift in the storm late Tuesday night pushed oil prices up in after-hours trading.
The Interpublic Group of Companies in New York said yesterday that it would place a shareholder proposal to sell the company on the proxy for the 2005 annual meeting, after the Securities and Exchange Commission denied a request by the company to exclude the plan.
The proposal was submitted by an owner of 300 shares of Interpublic stock, Charles Miller, who has placed similar proposals on the proxies of other companies in which he owns shares. In a statement, Interpublic said that it believed that the ''best current course of action'' to maximize shareholder value ''continues to be resolving financial reporting issues and improving operating performance.''
Richard Scruggs picked his way through the ruins of his once-handsome four-bedroom home, no more than 50 yards from the edge of the Gulf of Mexico.
A wall of water flung by Hurricane Katrina tore through the home a little more than three weeks ago, blowing out the sides of the house and leaving only a pair of brick chimneys and exposed studs tenuously holding up the upper floor.
David Boies is a star in the courtroom, but his back-office operations are causing some headaches.
Mr. Boies, who has presented himself as a white knight to troubled companies, has faced criticism in recent weeks over previously undisclosed ties to a document management firm that is partly owned by members of his family.
The chairman of Time Warner, Richard D. Parsons, said yesterday that improving the company's America Online Internet business was a priority as he tries to bolster the share price -- signaling a tweak in strategy and a belief that the stigma of the AOL-Time Warner merger is finally a thing of the past.
Mr. Parsons indicated that amid pressure from Carl C. Icahn, the financier and Time Warner shareholder, he was ''looking real hard'' at moves like buying back more stock and increasing the dividend.
As an assistant professor at the Louisiana State University Health Sciences Center in Shreveport, Dr. William Overdyke oversaw operations to replace worn-down knees. From 2000 through the middle of 2001, whenever a patient needed an artificial knee, he or the residents he supervised implanted one made by Sulzer Medical, state documents show.
Dr. Overdyke has said that he used the Sulzer implant because it was the best available. But Louisiana state officials say he had another incentive as well: the $175,000 a year that he stood to make from contracts with the company. The contracts called for him to consult on product design and ''promote and educate other surgeons'' on the virtues of Sulzer products.
The Securities and Exchange Commission is investigating the Altera Corporation, a California chip maker, over its retaliation this year against Wall Street analysts who were less than bullish on the company's shares, the company said yesterday.
The informal inquiry, which is being conducted by the commission's San Francisco office, may indicate that the practice of companies blackballing analysts is of concern to Christopher Cox, the new S.E.C. chairman.
The Microsoft Corporation will unveil today its own system for selling Web advertising as it struggles to compete with Google and Yahoo in the expanding Web search business. The system, to be used by MSN, is meant to improve on those of Microsoft's rivals by allowing marketers to aim ads on Web search pages to users based on their sex, age or location.
The move is part of Microsoft's broad response to the threat from Google, which is using its powerful advertising sales network to support an expanding range of free software products and Internet services. Last week, Microsoft announced a broad reorganization that placed MSN in the same group as its Windows operating system, indicating that it saw software delivered over the Internet -- and possibly paid for through advertising -- as central to its future.
Hollinger International's prominent independent directors, including Richard N. Perle, Henry A. Kissinger and James R. Thompson, remain in their paid positions more than a year after several were censured for their conduct in an internal company report.
A number of the directors were sharply criticized, and two, including Mr. Perle, are even being sued by the newspaper company. Several directors, including Mr. Thompson and Mr. Kissinger, are among a group of current and past board members who agreed in May to pay $50 million to settle a shareholder lawsuit contending that they failed to perform their duties.
Last March, executives from the Walt Disney Studios approached the visual-effects wizards at George Lucas's company, Industrial Light & Magic, with an audacious request. Could they convert the forthcoming Disney animated film ''Chicken Little'' into 3-D?
In less than four months?
LAST week at the Sheraton Hotel in downtown New Orleans, a mix of contractors, journalists and security people sat in the bar, reminiscing about Katrina and speculating about Rita, the storm of the moment.
Hurricane coverage, for all of its discomforts, is a bit of a caper with beaucoup fringes. Reporters get to take over hotels, spend like pirates, drink like sailors and eat like truck drivers.
As the presidential election of 2004 was in full swing and John F. Kerry and George W. Bush seemed to be holding events every other day in northeast Ohio, Cleveland was declared the poorest big city in America.
The hemorrhaging of manufacturing jobs and exodus of Fortune 500 company headquarters had finally pushed Cleveland to the top of an ignominious list at a time of heightened attention.
Dell, which has beaten its competition by slicing profit margins and turning low-price computers into a commodity, is now turning to the high end. It will announce today that it will begin selling a line of desktop and laptop computers it is marketing as luxury models.
While expensive laptops are nothing new, trying to sell them as a luxury product is. Dell said its new XPS brand would be sold at higher prices -- and fatter margins -- than its Dimension PC's and Inspiron laptops, starting at $2,700 for the laptop and $1,100 for entry-priced units of three desktop models.
The Supreme Court agreed Tuesday to decide whether a popular tax credit, which most states use to encourage businesses to make capital investments, violates the Constitution.
The case is an appeal by the State of Ohio and the DaimlerChrysler Corporation, which received an Ohio investment tax credit for building a Jeep plant in a depressed area of Toledo, of a court ruling that a benefit of this type interferes unconstitutionally with interstate commerce.
In one sense, chemical industry executives should be sighing with relief. Hurricane Katrina damaged some of their plants, but repairs are proceeding quickly. Hurricane Rita left barely a physical mark. For the next few months, orders will drop but, the executives say, demand will probably ratchet up quickly as rebuilding along the Gulf Coast begins.
''Net-net, it will be a wash, because our industry's products will be used to rebuild the devastated areas,'' said Andrew N. Liveris, chief executive of the Dow Chemical Company.
MAIDENFORM ladies are dreaming again.
Many of those too young to remember probably know about the ad campaign that Maidenform ran from the end of World War II up through the mid-1960's. It was the one with gorgeous ladies, their bottoms modestly clad but their tops ensconced only in their bras, dreaming they ''went shopping'' -- or rode fire trucks, or crossed the Nile on Cleopatra's barge -- ''in their Maidenform bras.''
The ranks of airlines operating under bankruptcy protection thinned yesterday, when US Airways emerged from Chapter 11 status and merged with America West to form the country's largest low-fare airline.
In a few months, United Airlines wants to be next to come out of court protection, after three tumultuous years in which it has made deep cuts in wages and benefits, terminated its pension plans and remade itself from an employee-owned carrier into one run like the others.
Just a month after Hurricane Katrina smashed Mississippi's casino gambling boats, the state Legislature opened a special session Tuesday devoted to how and whether to salvage an industry that has been central to the economy of the Gulf Coast.
Saying that placing such structures on the water is no longer safe, Gov. Haley Barbour instantly generated controversy by proposing that casinos, previously restricted to boats moored along the state's southern coast or the Mississippi River, be allowed to move as much as 1,500 feet inland. The casinos had been built on barges because, under Mississippi law, they had to float to keep them physically separate from nearby communities.
Photoshop Elements 4.0 hit the shelves this week with a score of improvements, including some that make it easier to find pictures of people you want and easier to edit out people you don't.
Elements 4.0, Photoshop's hobbyist-level photo-editing and organizing program, has improved its tagging system, which lets users file photos under multiple categories -- for example, under the names of people in the photo as well as the place it was taken.
Russia's state-owned natural gas giant Gazprom said Wednesday that it would buy Sibneft, the country's fifth-largest oil company, for $13.09 billion, further extending the Kremlin's control of major oil producers here.
Gazprom and Millhouse Capital, the holding company of the billionaire Roman A. Abramovich, jointly announced the sale of a 72.6 percent stake in Sibneft. Gazprom already held a 3 percent stake in Sibneft through its banking arm. Another 20 percent of Sibneft stock is tied up in arbitration in London after a failed merger with the Yukos oil company.
Andrea Westmeyer, president of Relationship Marketing Inc., a communications consulting firm, knows how to make a good first impression with Fortune 500 clients. She has a well-appointed office in Rockefeller Center in Manhattan. She has a secretary who answers the phone on the first ring. And she comes across as a seasoned New Yorker -- always able to chat about restaurant openings or commiserate about finding a taxicab on a rainy Manhattan day.
But Ms. Westmeyer's company is actually based in Des Moines. She rents the Manhattan office -- along with the conference room and the secretary, who diverts her calls to Iowa -- by the hour from HQ Global Workplaces, a company that leases part-time office space, so she can meet with clients there a few times a month. Along with her monthly fee comes the privilege of having her company listed in the Rockefeller Center electronic directory and printing the renowned address on her company's business cards.
The Eastman Kodak Company, which has missed its earnings targets for three quarters, said yesterday that earnings were likely to be disappointing for the rest of the year.
But at a three-and-a-half-hour meeting yesterday, Kodak executives tried to assure analysts that by 2008, the digital business will be humming along, Kodak will have regained the investment grade credit rating it lost this year and any revenue from its conventional film business will be a bonus.
Ford Motor, acknowledging for a second time that fuel tanks in some of its large sedans pose an increased risk of explosion in rear-end collisions, offered Wednesday to provide protective fire shields to owners of Lincoln Town Car stretch limousines.
Ford will not offer the fire shields to the millions of individual owners who drive cars with the same fuel system, saying the problem is specific to the limousines. Safety advocates have called on the automaker to recall the three million Ford vehicles that have the same fuel system, which was built into recent models of the Town Car, Crown Victoria and Mercury Grand Marquis.
Orders for durable goods showed a surprisingly robust recovery in August, the government reported yesterday, indicating that the manufacturing sector was picking up its pace after a sharp drop in July and before Hurricanes Katrina and Rita devastated the Gulf Coast.
Separately, the president's top economic adviser, Ben S. Bernanke, said yesterday that the storms could cut economic growth by one-half to one percentage point in the third quarter but added that the slowdown would be short-lived.
Five days after Hurricane Rita made landfall, the extent of the damage to offshore oil operations in the Gulf of Mexico sharpened yesterday after Chevron indicated that one of its three large platforms had capsized after losing its moorings.
The deepwater platform, called Typhoon, was spotted Sunday drifting nearly 80 miles from its original position, a Chevron spokesman, Mickey Driver, said. The company had first said on Monday that Typhoon had been ''severely damaged.''
Alexandra Paul, a former star of ''Baywatch,'' is not a satisfied General Motors customer -- to put it mildly.
In 2002, G.M. sent a tow truck to her house to reclaim a car she had leased from the company. When it was done, she went inside and cried.
Criminal investigators at the Food and Drug Administration have apparently become involved in the agency's inquiry into how the Guidant Corporation handled problems with its heart devices, said two people contacted by the investigators.
Since June, the F.D.A. has been looking into several issues involving Guidant, including whether it properly reported failures of some of its heart devices and manufacturing changes to correct the problems. The agency's Office of Criminal Investigations is often called upon to examine such issues.
Samuel Israel III, the founder and chief executive of the Bayou Group, the Connecticut hedge fund that seemingly disappeared overnight in what federal prosecutors have described as a $300 million fraud, is expected to surrender to federal authorities today, a law enforcement official who has been briefed on the case said last night.
The fund's chief financial officer, Daniel E. Marino, also is expected to surrender.
Many of the business elite of New Orleans seem preoccupied these days by what some here simply call The List -- the chosen few Mayor C. Ray Nagin is expected to name on Friday to a commission to advise him on the rebuilding of the stricken city. Almost certain to make the grade is the real estate mogul Joseph C. Canizaro, the man best known for bringing high-rises to the New Orleans skyline.
Mr. Canizaro has emerged as perhaps the single most influential business executive from New Orleans. One fellow business leader calls him the local Donald Trump. But Mr. Canizaro derives his influence far less from a flamboyant style than from his close ties to President Bush as well as to Mr. Nagin, and that combination could make him a pivotal figure in deciding how and where New Orleans will be resurrected.
THE Subaru Corvette  the Green Bay Dolphins  the Microsoft iPod.
There's no getting around it: sometimes, a company's name just seems like part of its product name, and anything else just sounds weird. Take, for example, the I.B.M. ThinkPad. Since I.B.M. sold off its entire Think division last May, the laptop line should logically be called the Lenovo ThinkPad.
The accounting firm KPMG and a law firm have agreed to pay $195 million to as many as 280 wealthy investors who bought four types of questionable shelters, the first major step by the two firms to deal with billions of dollars in potential civil claims.
The agreement also calls for the firms to pay the lead plaintiffs' lawyers $30 million in fees. Papers describing the settlement were filed in federal court in Newark this week; it will be presented to a judge next week for approval.
Lenovo's purchase of I.B.M.'s personal computer business was unquestionably a bold move and a striking symbol of China's economic globalization. But the challenge facing the combined company is to find a way to prosper in the fiercely competitive PC business, a sector where I.B.M. consistently lost money over the years.
Now, five months after the deal closed, the Lenovo and I.B.M. operations are being combined in earnest as the company tries to chart a path to success. With a management realignment, announced today, Lenovo hopes to advance its strategy.
One year ago, after the first two weeks of the new network television season, all anyone was talking about was ''Lost'' and ''Desperate Housewives.''
A year later, two weeks into the new season, all anyone is talking about is ''Lost'' and ''Desperate Housewives.''
Florence Henderson. Fred and Ethel Mertz. They're not likely to knock Paris Hilton or Brad and Angelina off the cover of People.
But pop culture figures of a certain age, or from a certain era, are playing lead roles in a vast new marketing and advertising blitz.
Heated deal talk may be swirling around European telecommunications companies, but the industry is still deeply divided about whether big cross-border mergers make sense.
In the wake of news that executives from Telefónica of Spain had made overtures to KPN of the Netherlands in recent weeks, some executives and bankers argued that big acquisitions were the only way for telecommunications companies to cut costs and grow quickly. The time, they said, is ripe for another round of consolidation because companies are flush with cash and competition looms from new players and technologies.
Brandywine Realty Trust, a real estate investment trust based in suburban Philadelphia, announced yesterday that it had reached an agreement to acquire Prentiss Properties Trust of Dallas in a cash, stock and debt-assumption deal that the companies said was worth a total of approximately $3.3 billion.
The transaction, which is expected to close near the end of the year or early in 2006, would transform Brandywine of Plymouth Meeting, Pa., from a real estate company with most of its assets in the mid-Atlantic region into one with significant investments in the areas of Dallas-Fort Worth; Washington, D.C.; and Austin, Tex.; as well as in California.
Dozens of part-time workers at six large companies have begun to sign up for low-cost, limited health benefits in a new national program for uninsured employees.
The HR Policy Association, a nonprofit organization of senior personnel executives, said enrollment was under way at units of General Electric, I.B.M., Sears, Avon Products, the computer-storage company EMC and the auto supplier Federal-Mogul.
I'VE never sailed on a cruise ship. Four years in the United States Navy is the reason for that. Aircraft carriers, cruisers, destroyers, a battleship -- I literally landed on them all at one point or another, and the effect lasted. Since then, when traversing an ocean, I have preferred to remain about 35,000 feet above the bounding main.
Actually, I'm in a solid majority in avoiding the high seas. True, cruises have become popular, carrying 10.5 million passengers last year, a record, including 8.9 million of them from ports in North America. That compares with 6.9 million passengers in 2000 and a mere 690,000 in 1975.
Even after Saturday's bombings, which killed 22 people on the Indonesian island of Bali, analysts say it is harder to terrorize Southeast Asia and the tourists who visit the region than it once was.
The attacks are likely to have an immediate impact on Bali's tourism, analysts predicted. But Indonesia is likely to bounce back sooner than it did after the much deadlier attacks there in 2002. The latest attacks are also unlikely to damage the regional economy as much as the 2002 bombing, which killed 202 people, they said.
Home builders have never had it so good. Low interest rates and creative financing have caused a frenetic pace of new-home construction across the country. Builders are reporting blistering earnings and their shares are trading at or near record highs.
Now they are cashing in. Executives and directors at many of the nation's largest development companies sold stock at a record pace this summer. Insiders at the 10 largest home builders by market value, including D.R. Horton, KB Home, Toll Brothers and M.D.C. Holdings, have sold nearly 11 million shares, worth $952 million, so far this year. That is a huge jump from the 6.8 million shares, worth $658 million, that insiders sold during all of last year, according to data compiled by Thomson Financial.
Security lines, weather delays and equipment failures make flying a burden for many. For Jason Green, it is a slice of heaven -- virtually the only place he is not bombarded by phone calls and e-mail.
''Being on a plane has become a mini-retreat for me,'' said Mr. Green, 32, executive vice president of Touchstone Pictures. ''Long international flights are like vacation. No phone, no e-mail and no guilt for being unreachable.''
In the five months since Microsoft unveiled a prototype of its new video game machine, the Xbox 360, the company has tried to generate excitement by staging demonstrations of the console's ability to play music and display digital photographs and by trumpeting its online community features.
Yet as Microsoft has tried to build buzz for the 360, the most important ingredient has largely been missing: games.
Brazil said on Tuesday that it was close to completing an agreement with Abbott Laboratories that would almost halve the price it pays for Kaletra, a drug used to treat AIDS patients.
The pending agreement, which would lower the drug's price to 63 cents a pill from $1.17, comes after months of negotiations and stern warnings from Brazil that it would disregard Abbott's patent and make a generic version of Kaletra domestically if the company did not lower the price to a level it deemed affordable.
Google  and Sun Microsystems announced a broad but vague agreement yesterday to develop and distribute each other's technology in a bid to expand their markets and challenge Microsoft's dominance of computer desktops.
Under the agreement, Sun will include the Google toolbar as an option when consumers download the Java programming tool, a software program that is widely considered one of Sun's crown jewels. The deal is also expected to make it easier for customers to obtain OpenOffice, Sun's freely distributed office productivity suite that competes with Microsoft Office.
After falling for two years, the share of income going to the richest slice of Americans -- the top tenth of 1 percent -- grew significantly in 2003 while the share going to 99 percent of Americans fell, tax data released yesterday showed.
At the same time, the effective income tax rates paid by the top tenth of 1 percent fell sharply, declining at more than 10 times the rate reduction for middle-class taxpayers, the new report, by the Internal Revenue Service, showed.
In the late 1800's a New York surgeon named William B. Coley noticed that when one of his cancer patients developed a severe bacterial infection, the cancer disappeared. Over the following decades, Dr. Coley began injecting tumors with bacteria, with some success.
But the results were inconsistent, and critics derided the work as quackery. ''Coley's toxins,'' as they were called, faded into disuse with the advent of radiation treatments and chemotherapy.
IF you could ask a pre-2005 digital camera what it wanted to be when it grew up, it would probably say, ''a film camera.'' For their first 10 years, digital models strove to emulate the looks, features and quality of film cameras.
But digitals started outselling film cameras two years ago and these days, most people are convinced that digicams have caught up to film. For the first time, the camera companies are beginning to ask what comes next. ''Enough of playing Ape the Film Camera,'' the manufacturers seem to say. ''These are digital gadgets, with digital possibilities. Let's take this game to the next level.''
In 1999, ''The Blair Witch Project'' became one of the most profitable low-budget movies of all time through word-of-mouth promotion helped along by a mysterious little Web site that the film's creators put up.
Now Dan Myrick, the movie's co-director, is turning to the Internet, not just for marketing, but to deliver a whole series called ''The Strand of Venice,'' a moody drama set in Venice, Calif.
Georgiana Gardiner has no use for conventional supermarkets. When Ms. Gardiner, who lives in a Denver suburb, wants fresh fish, meats, produce, and other perishables, she drives 25 minutes to the nearest Whole Foods Market. When she needs products like canned beans, pasta and paper towels, she stops at a Wal-Mart Supercenter, which has a full grocery store.
It has been at least a year, she said, since she entered a Safeway or Kroger, the two national supermarket chains that operate in the Denver area.
Three years ago BioCryst Pharmaceuticals gave up on a drug it was developing to treat influenza.
The drug, peramivir, had failed in clinical trials, in part because not enough of it got into the bloodstream when taken orally. Johnson & Johnson pulled out of a partnership with BioCryst in 2001 when it saw that other flu drugs were not selling well.
Eight former executives of the accounting firm KPMG and one outside lawyer have been indicted on charges stemming from their role in designing and selling questionable tax shelters. Yet so far, no court has decided that the shelters were improper.
One tax shelter promoter has asked a federal judge in San Francisco to tackle that very question: the legality of the shelters. And federal prosecutors in Manhattan appear to be worried that the judge might do that. Lawyers for the government have twice argued that the judge should wait for the criminal case to conclude.
When Amanda Bennett, editor of The Philadelphia Inquirer, heard last month that she had to cut 75 jobs in her newsroom -- 15 percent of her staff -- she was sick to her stomach.
But after some reflection, she said, she realized that the depth of the cuts would force the newspaper to reinvent itself, and this would be to its advantage.
The Intel Corporation, the largest semiconductor maker, is expected to unveil on Monday its first server processors that place multiple microprocessors on a single piece of silicon, stepping up its efforts to compete head-to-head with Advanced Micro Devices, which introduced its first dual-core server chip in the spring.
Intel has been developing the new Xeon processors under the code-name Paxville. The dual-core chip technology used in the servers effectively speeds performance while preventing the overheating that can plague high-performing processors. Also on Monday, the company will introduce a multicore version, putting four microprocessors on one piece of silicon.
The Lincoln National Corporation, a midsize life insurance company, is in advanced talks to buy a smaller rival, Jefferson Pilot Financial, for about $7.5 billion, according to people briefed on the transaction.
The deal, which could be announced as early as today, may be presented as a merger of equals, despite the disparity in size.
When Delphi, the nation's largest auto supplier, filed for bankruptcy on Saturday, it was the latest blow to the American auto worker's gilded age.
Ninety-one years ago, Henry Ford shocked corporate America by abruptly announcing that he would roughly double his workers' average wages, to $5 a day. For the first time, many Ford line workers could afford the Model T's they were assembling.
SOMETIMES what appears to be a threat is actually a life preserver.
The poor defenseless music industry cowered -- then prosecuted -- when the monster of digital downloads came lurching over the horizon. Then the iPod came along and music looks like a business again -- a smaller business, eked out in 99- cent units -- but still a business.
Greg Brooks is homeless. Not impoverished, ''brother can you spare a dime'' homeless, but displaced just the same.
How else to describe a business traveler who spends 330 days a year on the road? During the past 18 months, Mr. Brooks, a transportation infrastructure consultant, has returned to his office in Plattsburg, Mo., an average of only once every other weekend.
HERE is a look back at some of the highlights, lowlights and sidelights of the 95th annual meeting of the Association of National Advertisers, attended by more than 900 people here last Thursday through Sunday.
BROUGHT TO YOU BY -- One topic discussed by many speakers during the conference was branded entertainment, the integration of products and sponsors into movies and television programming. One speaker provided a timely reminder of how pervasive it once was.
In yet another sign of the continuing effort by William Clay Ford Jr. to reshape his distressed automaker, the Ford Motor Company said Monday that two high-ranking executives were stepping aside.
The departures come from within the company's North American operations, where losses are deepening and company executives are looking to reorganize. The two executives who announced their resignations were Phil Martens, head of North American product development, and Matt DeMars, who oversaw North American manufacturing.
Building oil rigs is providing export-dependent Singapore with an unexpectedly strong source of economic growth even as it struggles to hang on to its traditional niche in electronics amid rising competition from China.
Its Ministry of Trade and Industry said Monday that Singapore's economy appeared to have expanded 3.2 percent in the third quarter, according to preliminary estimates based on two months of data. Economists said that put the country on track to beat government projections for growth this year of 3.5 percent to 4.5 percent.
Carl C. Icahn, the investor, has increased his stake in Time Warner  and is challenging the track record of the company's senior managers and directors, dating back to its merger with America Online. The moves are a part of his campaign to push for changes and board seats at the media conglomerate.
Mr. Icahn is expected to say in a letter to Time Warner shareholders, to be filed with regulators as soon as this morning, that the company's board and top management have produced a ''dismal record of mistakes and inaction'' since the AOL merger in 2000. The letter notes that 12 of Time Warner's 15 current directors -- including the chairman and chief executive Richard D. Parsons -- voted in favor of the combination that led to the loss of more than 75 percent of the company's market value over two years.
Robert J. Aumann and Thomas C. Schelling won the Nobel Memorial Prize in Economic Science yesterday for their work in game theory, which explains the choices that competitors make in situations that require strategic thinking.
Their work has helped to illuminate the dynamics in labor negotiations, business transactions and arms negotiations, among other situations. An article that Mr. Schelling wrote prompted the director Stanley Kubrick to make the movie ''Dr. Strangelove,'' consulting with Mr. Schelling during the filming.
Watch out Detroit, you could be next.
That is the warning for domestic automakers from Robert S. Miller Jr., the straight-talking chief executive of Delphi, who took his company, the nation's biggest maker of auto parts, into bankruptcy protection last weekend.
Roche, the maker of the main drug that would be used against a possible bird flu epidemic, is under growing pressure to allow production of generic versions of the medicine.
But the company and some outside experts say production of the drug, Tamiflu, is so complex and time-consuming that even generic makers could not quickly expand global supplies.
The United States upped the ante Monday in the delicate negotiations between America and Europe over aid to farmers, a central sticking point in stalled global trade talks.
The United States is seeking to swap cuts in subsidies for more access to global markets for its farmers. The European Union, while making some concessions, has so far declined to lower tariffs much further.
Refco Inc., a futures-trading company that went public two months ago, ousted its chief executive yesterday after discovering that a firm he controlled owed the company$430 million. Refco's shares fell 45 percent, reducing the company's market value by $1.65 billion.
Refco said that Phillip R. Bennett, the chairman and chief executive, had been suspended yesterday, although he repaid the $430 million in cash the same day. It said that it had hired forensic accountants to look into the matter and that it would delay its quarterly filing to the Securities and Exchange Commission.
All the tea in China is proving to be a lot of tea these days, as hillsides across central and southern China are bulldozed to make way for tea farms even as many young Chinese are losing interest in the beverage.
China still has millions of tea lovers who lavish the same attention on their beverage that oenophiles devote to wine. The finest grades of green tea, made from the most delicate baby leaves and roasted in a pan by hand, sell for hundreds of dollars a pound in Shanghai and Beijing.
Sergei A. Zuykov is a lawyer for Starbucks in Russia. Only the Starbucks he represents brews no coffee and owns no shops. Its business consists of trying to sell its name back to the other Starbucks -- the better-known company from Seattle.
A tall, strapping 39-year-old former car alarm salesman turned trademark squatter, Mr. Zuykov has stalled Starbucks' entry into one of the fastest growing retail markets in Europe while competitors, both homegrown and international brands, have been springing up like mushrooms after the rain.
A British court provided a mixed verdict for Pfizer in a crucial patent dispute yesterday, upholding one of the company's British patents on Lipitor, the company's best-selling cholesterol-lowering medicine, but invalidating a second one.
The ruling, by Justice Nicholas Pumfrey of the High Court in London, will have no practical effect on Pfizer's control over Lipitor in Britain because the court upheld a patent that covers the main active ingredient in the drug. That patent does not expire until November 2011.
Three years ago Hyundai Motor's sales in Russia were as modest as its cars. Who among the new class of superrich would buy a low-profile Hyundai? And who among the poor could afford one?
With revenues from Russia's oil exports pulsing through the economy, Hyundai's fortunes have changed profoundly.
Google and Comcast are in talks with Time Warner to buy a portion of America Online, according to several people with knowledge of the negotiations. The joint bid was widely seen as a way to head off Microsoft, which has also been negotiating to buy a minority stake in AOL.
The development means that Time Warner, which has long been under pressure by Wall Street to sell off its AOL unit, now finds itself in the enviable position of having multiple suitors, which may drive up AOL's value.
A GROWING number of states and countries have passed laws banning cellphone use while driving. But if we're really going to be serious about safety, we need laws against the even more distracting things people do while they drive. Which brave lawmaker will propose the No Fixing Hair, Fishing the Back Seat Floor for Baby Bottles or Arguing About Politics While Driving Act?
At least there's one glimmer of good news: new audio-entertainment sources like iPods and satellite radio are making AM radio less and less of a distraction. No longer must you glance down to change the channel the 600th time the same herbal supplement ad comes on.
Bratz, a line of dolls whose curvy figures and up-to-the-minute fashions have turned it into a $2.5 billion global brand, has discovered a threat even bigger than Barbie: 12-year-old girls like Ashley Rivera. A member of the first generation to embrace Bratz, which reached the market in 2001, she is looking past Cloe, Roxxi and Sasha this holiday season in favor of -- what else? -- an iPod.
But instead of giving up on the girls who turned Bratz into a blockbuster, the dolls' manufacturer is aggressively chasing after them, not with bigger and better Bratz characters, but digital video cameras and MP3 players. ''We don't look at ourselves as a toy company,'' said Isaac Larian, the chief executive of MGA Entertainment, the private company that owns Bratz. ''The toy market, to be frank, is just shrinking.''
In the latest skirmish in a bitter war over the best-selling drug ever created by biotechnology, Johnson & Johnson has filed an antitrust suit accusing rival Amgen of using illegal leverage to drive its drug, Procrit, out of the market.
In a suit filed Tuesday in Federal District Court in Trenton, N.J., Johnson & Johnson said Amgen was bundling sales of its drugs in a way that forces cancer clinics to buy Amgen's Aranesp at the expense of Procrit.
M&C Saatchi in London has lost its flagship account as British Airways leaves the agency after a decade, shifting its worldwide creative assignment to Bartle Bogle Hegarty in London. British Airways is estimated to spend $90 million to $100 million a year on ads.
The brothers Maurice and Charles Saatchi founded M&C Saatchi in 1995 with several large accounts they had handled at their previous agency, Saatchi & Saatchi, now part of the Publicis Groupe.
Deal Makers
Morgan Stanley, RBC Capital Markets and Goldman Sachs are advising Inco on its roughly $11 billion offer for Falconbridge. CIBC World Markets is advising Falconbridge.
The five robots that successfully navigated a 132-mile course in the Nevada desert last weekend demonstrated the re-emergence of artificial intelligence, a technology field that for decades has overpromised and underdelivered.
At its low point, some computer scientists and software engineers avoided the term artificial intelligence for fear of being viewed as wild-eyed dreamers.
BENJAMIN FRANKLIN thought compound interest was the secret to gaining wealth. But that takes time. It appears that Phillip R. Bennett found a quicker route: the miracle of the price-earnings multiple.
The price-earnings ratio, as currently accepted by investors, says that a company is worth a multiple of its profits. The multiple will be higher if the profits are growing.
About 150 miles southeast of New Orleans, an oil drilling ship the size of two football fields with a wide hole in its hull and a 200-foot derrick on its deck is back in operation.
Thanks to its ability to perform in waters as deep as 10,000 feet, the Deepwater Millennium is considered the Cadillac of oil and gas exploration, allowing companies to find energy resources in remote or deep locations that were, until recently, considered out of reach.
For Wall Street, these are good times. But London's financial industry is enjoying a particularly heady boom that may put New York, at least for the moment, to shame.
London has not quite returned to the halcyon days of 2000, but the tell-tale signs of good cheer are everywhere: bankers spending tens of thousands of pounds on Champagne, deal activity that is outpacing that in the United States and a surge in hiring at the big banks. Central London is going through a ''golden age,'' said Dennis Stevenson, the chairman of the British bank HBOS and the former chairman of Pearson. ''It's becoming more and more convenient for the large financial institutions to do business in London.''
Federal regulators filed suit against a hedge fund yesterday, claiming that its manager deceived his investors by not disclosing his high concentration in a rapidly sinking stock.
The suit was filed against Wood River Capital Management and its manager, John H. Whittier. According to the suit, filed by the Securities and Exchange Commission, Mr. Whittier did not disclose to investors that he had at one point as much as 98 percent of one of his funds invested in a speculative stock with no recent history of profitability.
The idea has been around for years. In Spain and elsewhere in Europe, utility companies have long offered high-speed Internet service to consumers over their power lines.
But American utilities are only now beginning to roll out broadband connections on their grid.
In a windowless war room where Microsoft manages worldwide computer security crises, George Stathakopoulos, the general manager for security, opened a small refrigerator, revealing three bottles of Champagne.
''These are for the arrests,'' he said, with a brief smile.
When Eric Young directed his first episodes for the cellphone serial drama ''24: Conspiracy,'' it was the bullet holes that vexed him most. Mr. Young, hired to create 24 one-minute mobile episodes for a spinoff of the hit series ''24,'' learned that making video for a pocket-size screen is far different from making it for a 27-inch television set.
About 70 percent of the images he used were close-ups of actors, because panoramic shots appeared blurry. He said he used tiny speakers to hear what ''the sound of a neck cracking'' would be like on a cellphone after one of the episode's characters died from a snapped vertebra. But for gunshot wounds, the director was forced to make the bullet holes extra large and to double the amount of blood so they could be easily identified on the small screen.
NED LEVI watched in amazement as a passenger grunted down the aisle with five bags on a recent flight from Philadelphia to Seattle. ''I was surprised she could even walk,'' said Mr. Levi, a computer consultant from Philadelphia. ''I was even more surprised that the flight attendants didn't try to stop her.'' His remedy for the endless boarding delays that plague airlines these days: enforce luggage limits.
Sounds reasonable, but United Airlines says it believes it has hit on a better solution. It recently announced a logistics ploy it calls Wilma -- shorthand for window-middle-aisle -- that it claims will cut boarding times by four to five minutes, an eternity in the industry's on-time takeoff sweepstakes. The idea is to fill the window seats in economy class first, then the middle seats, then the aisle seats, thereby eliminating the free-for-all chaos that clogs the cabin when passengers are sent in by row numbers.
Would you like Mario with that Big Mac?
Nintendo of America is expected to announce today that it will offer free wireless Internet access for its Nintendo DS portable game system at McDonald's restaurants. Customers will be able to play select DS games with other players around the world.
I.B.M. delivered a solid quarterly performance yesterday with earnings exceeding Wall Street's expectations, suggesting that corporate spending on information technology is continuing to pick up modestly.
I.B.M., the world's largest information technology company, is closely watched as a barometer of business spending on technology. About one dollar of every $10 spent by corporations worldwide on technology is spent on I.B.M. hardware, software or services.
A legal battle over nearly $20 billion of American International Group stock escalated yesterday, as lawyers for Maurice R. Greenberg, the company's former chief executive, argued in a lawsuit that the shares belonged to Starr International, which is headed by Mr. Greenberg, and not to A.I.G.
The lawsuit asks the court to recognize Starr International, which has provided long-term compensation to A.I.G. executives, as an independent entity. The suit contends that Starr has no contractual agreement to use its A.I.G. stock to compensate the insurance company's employees.
As Wall Street had expected, results of a clinical trial reported yesterday showed that the Endeavor stent from Medtronic was inferior to the Cypher device from Johnson & Johnson at preventing the growth of scar tissue within the stent.
Stents are used to prop open heart arteries after blockages have been cleared. Endeavor and Cypher are part of a new generation of stents that are coated with drugs to reduce the tendency of scar tissue to grow so aggressively that blood flow is seriously impaired.
After a surge of criticism for increasing the pay of company executives while asking hourly employees to accept deep wage cuts, the chairman of Delphi said Monday that he and other managers were reducing their salaries.
Robert S. Miller, the corporate turnaround specialist who is leading Delphi through Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection for $1.5 million a year, said his new salary would be $1, starting Jan. 1. The company's president, Rodney O'Neal, also said he would take a 20 percent reduction in his $1.15 million salary, and 20 other executives would accept 10 percent cuts.
When Sam Loggans saw the United Automobile Workers president, Ron Gettelfinger, at an N.A.A.C.P. event last year, he had a message for the union boss.
''I said, 'G.M. is going to come after our benefits,''' recalled Mr. Loggans, who proudly displays a plaque on his living room wall honoring his 30 years as an electrician at General Motors. Mr. Gettelfinger, he said, looked him in the eye and assured him that benefits for retirees ''were not going to be on the table.''
Warner Brothers Entertainment, the maker of hit television shows like ''ER'' and films like the Harry Potter series, is looking to cut costs next year because the division is anticipating a slowdown in revenue, according to two Warner studio executives.
The cuts, which could include layoffs, have not been determined yet because both the television unit and the film unit are reviewing their budgets.
The resurgence of Brooklyn neighborhoods like Park Slope and Williamsburg is well documented. But what is not as widely known is how well the downtown business district is doing, despite a still somewhat dog-eared appearance. What is more, the area is on the verge of a major transformation.
In the borough's six million square feet of Class A office space -- modern property in highly desirable locations -- the vacancy rate was only 6.8 percent in the third quarter of 2005; brokers say that is one of the lowest rates in the country. The Gallery at Fulton Street, more commonly known as the Fulton Mall, is regarded as a highly successful urban shopping center, commanding annual rents upward of $200 a square foot and drawing 100,000 shoppers a day. There is even a growing residential population in downtown Brooklyn.
Bristol-Myers Squibb and Merck had a setback yesterday in their plans to market a first-of-its-kind diabetes medication that aims to control blood sugar while also lowering cholesterol.
The Food and Drug Administration deferred approval of the drug, Pargluva, and asked for more information about its cardiovascular safety. The companies said the agency wanted additional information from patient trials completed since Bristol-Myers and Merck submitted data in support of their application.
Wal-Mart Stores, which is fighting the nation's largest sex discrimination lawsuit, will set up a $25 million private equity fund to support businesses owned by women and members of minority groups over the next five years, the retailer said yesterday.
The fund will invest in businesses that offer merchandise and services to retailers with the goal of diversifying the industry's suppliers. Of Wal-Mart's 61,000 United States suppliers, 5,200 are owned by women and minority group members, the company said.
Wholesale prices surged at a faster pace than consumer prices last month, the government reported yesterday, indicating that businesses are not passing on the full brunt of the energy price spike to customers.
The Producer Price Index, which measures the prices received by producers of goods and services, jumped 1.9 percent in September, as energy costs rose 7.1 percent, the Labor Department reported. It was the biggest monthly increase since January 1990, when prices also increased 1.9 percent. Food prices increased 1.4 percent in September after falling for five consecutive months.
William Clay Ford Jr. was recently asked if it was fair to call him, as many have, a reluctant chief executive of the Ford Motor Company.
''Not anymore,'' he said, pondering the question at a news conference last month. ''No. No. I'm not reluctant at all.
Anheuser-Busch said yesterday that it was ending its promotion of Bud Pong, a game created by the brewery that is similar to a popular drinking game called beer pong but supposedly played with water. It said it notified distributors the promotion was over after executives found Bud Pong was being played improperly.
Francine I. Katz, vice president for communications and consumer affairs, said, ''Despite our explicit guidelines, there may have been instances where this promotion was not carried out in the manner it was intended.''
When Carrie Beth Walsh and her two toddlers landed at the airport in Seoul, South Korea, last year, there was no sign of her husband, an Army pilot who had been transferred there six weeks earlier.
He eventually showed up in a taxi, broke and unprepared for his family's arrival -- no rental car for the drive to his base, no apartment, no credit cards in his wallet that were not already up against his loan limits. ''He was making more than $60,000 a year,'' Ms. Walsh said. ''But we were always broke.''
Many digital single-lens reflex cameras outperform smaller point-and-shoot models in part because they use big advanced-imaging chips, known as A.P.S.-size sensors, which are about half the size of a single frame of conventional 35-millimeter film. Many makers of those cameras, including Nikon, get the sensors from Sony.
Now Sony has released its own camera with the A.P.S.-size sensor. But unlike other high-end cameras, the $1,000 Sony Cyber-shot DSC-R1 has an electronic viewfinder and does not offer interchangeable lenses, traits typical of less sophisticated cameras.
Even though the images produced are often blurry -- as if they're coming from the International Space Station instead of the house next door -- combining an inexpensive Webcam and a free instant-messaging program has been an affordable way to set up videoconferences between computers. Now the Logitech QuickCam Fusion, with its 1.3-megapixel sensor and built-in microphone, aims to sharpen the video-chat picture and the sound without breaking the bank.
Available for $100 or less online, the QuickCam Fusion hangs over the top of the monitor and uses a high-speed U.S.B. 2.0 connection for video playback that can be much smoother than is possible with Webcams using the old U.S.B 1.1 connections. The camera's sensors and optical system produce clear pictures in low light, and its noise-canceling microphone suppresses those annoying echoes while video-chatting without a headset.
A Google map is no longer just a Google map.
You can still search Google Maps to figure out how to get from here to there, but why would you, when you can use it to pinpoint kosher restaurants in Cincinnati, traffic cameras in Dublin, or hot spring spas anywhere in the United States? How about finding coffee shops in Seattle that provide free wireless Internet access? Or would you prefer to locate the McMansion your boss just bought and find how out exactly how much he paid for it?
TO paraphrase Yogi Berra, it seems that houses are now so expensive that no one can afford to own one.
Of course, economists know better. In the short run, the supply of housing in most areas is more or less fixed. Hence the price of housing is determined primarily by the demand side of the market -- by how much people are willing to pay for housing.
The Hewlett-Packard Company, a member of the Blu-ray Disc Association developing the next-generation DVD, urged the group yesterday to adopt software that has already been included in the rival format.
While still supporting the Blu-ray format, Hewlett took the unusual step of announcing its request as the board members of the Blu-ray group met in Los Angeles. The move signaled a potential rift in the Blu-ray camp between consumer electronics giants like Sony, Panasonic and Samsung, and computer makers like Hewlett and Dell.
EBay, the online marketplace, reported yesterday that its net income rose 40 percent in the third quarter and that revenue reached $1.11 billion, driven largely by growth in the United States and German markets.
But the company reduced its earnings guidance slightly for the full year because of its recent $2.6 billion acquisition of Skype Technologies, while still increasing its revenue forecast. As a result, eBay shares fell nearly 6 percent in after-hours trading, after gaining $1.59, to $42.01, before the report was released.
In his student days, Edward Zander, the plainspoken chief executive of Motorola, knew how to let the good times roll.
''When I was in college and went to a good party, I never asked: 'How long is it going to last?''' he said with a laugh Tuesday after his company reported third-quarter earnings.
Negotiations for a global trade accord ended without progress on Wednesday, with the United States saying the European Union had failed to match its offer to cut agricultural support.
The United States trade representative, Rob Portman, said it was increasingly unlikely that a deal would be reached at a crucial World Trade Organization meeting in December.
It was March in the high desert West but the day felt more like early summer -- warm, bright and breezy -- as the young couple rode out on rented mountain bikes along a trail that ran through the majestic red rock canyons outside Moab, Utah.
The two college students met only a few months earlier, in late 2004. But the couple, Jessica Lemieux and Joshua Oukrop, had talked in recent days about their lives together and marriage. ''I told him he had met his match,'' Ms. Lemieux recalled. ''That I had started finishing his sentences for him.''
Federal prosecutors said yesterday that one of the 19 executives charged in an investigation of tax shelters sold by the accounting firm KPMG might try to flee the country and should be detained pending trial.
The executive, David Greenberg, a former tax partner at KPMG, was arrested Monday afternoon in Los Angeles. At a hearing yesterday, prosecutors accused Mr. Greenberg of falsifying documents to hide his involvement in questionable tax shelters, coaching a co-conspirator to lie to investigators and misleading investigators about whether he had surrendered all his passports.
In a widely expected move, Warner Brothers Entertainment said yesterday that it would produce high-definition DVD's in the Blu-ray format championed by Sony in addition to the standard being promoted by Toshiba and a rival group.
The move by Warner, a unit of Time Warner, comes nearly three weeks after Paramount Pictures made a similar announcement. Universal Studios, the third studio that agreed to make movies in Toshiba's format, is expected to follow.
A federal magistrate judge decided on Thursday that a former partner at KPMG, the accounting firm whose tax shelters are the subject of a federal investigation, should not be released on bail and should be transported to the federal court in Manhattan where he was indicted on Monday.
The former partner, David Greenberg, was arrested Monday in Los Angeles; his lawyers sought to have him released on bail, but prosecutors charged that Mr. Greenberg was a flight risk and a danger to the community.
The emerging technique of using stents to open carotid arteries in the neck can be successfully performed by even doctors with limited experience in the procedure, if they receive training, according to preliminary results of a federally mandated study released Thursday.
That finding, as well as results reported on Wednesday from a separate study of carotid stents, could encourage regulators to expand Medicare coverage for the procedure, according to doctors involved in the studies. The federal government has estimated that as many as 200,000 Americans undergo carotid-clearing surgery each year. Regulators approved marketing the stents to a high-risk group that could include as many as 25 percent of those people, but Medicare is covering fewer than 10 percent of them.
Until this summer, the Kaierlai Sports Goods Company in Shishi, China, depended heavily on exports of its windbreakers to Germany.
But when the European Union reimposed import quotas and abruptly halted the shipments this summer, Kaierlai did not miss a beat. It stepped up sales of windbreakers within China so quickly that not only did it not lay off any of its 1,000 workers this autumn, it will hire another 1,000 when a second factory opens next year.
A well-known advertising executive and worldwide creative director at WPP Group resigned his position yesterday amid an uproar over remarks he made at an industry event about female creative executives. The comments, by Neil French, 61, drew attention to the absence of women at the highest levels of the creative side of the ad industry.
Mr. French told an audience in Toronto on Oct. 6 that women ''don't make it to the top because they don't deserve to,'' saying their roles as caregivers and childbearers prevented them from succeeding in top positions.
Much of the used computer equipment sent from the United States to developing countries for use in homes, schools and businesses is often neither usable nor repairable, creating enormous environmental problems in some of the world's poorest places, according to a report to be issued today by an environmental organization.
The report, titled ''The Digital Dump: Exporting Reuse and Abuse to Africa,'' says that the unusable equipment is being donated or sold to developing nations by recycling businesses in the United States as a way to dodge the expense of having to recycle it properly. While the report, written by the Basel Action Network, based in Seattle, focuses on Nigeria, in western Africa, it says the situation is similar throughout much of the developing world.
Michael Marx loves Barq's root beer. He frequently wears a Barq's T-shirt. He brings Barq's root beer to parties.
So it should come as no surprise that Mr. Marx, 34, of Gilbert, Ariz., keeps a blog dedicated to Barq's.
Weary of being scolded by parents and politicians, video game makers tend to play down the violent nature of certain games, but a gaming magazine is going out of its way to push the limits. To promote an article on the new Resident Evil 4, PSM, an unofficial PlayStation 2 magazine, inserted burlap bags as ''RE4 Halloween masks'' into 200,000 copies of its current issue.
A burlap bag, players of previous Resident Evil games know, conceals a chainsaw-wielding zombie. Accompanying instructions feature a photo of someone wearing the mask while gripping a bloody chainsaw-shaped control board that readers are eligible to win.
You might have thought that the White House had enough on its plate late last month, what with its search for a new Supreme Court nominee, the continuing war in Iraq and the C.I.A. leak investigation. But it found time to add another item to its agenda -- stopping The Onion, the satirical newspaper, from using the presidential seal.
The newspaper regularly produces a parody of President Bush's weekly radio address on its Web site (www.theonion.com/content/node/40121), where it has a picture of President Bush and the official insignia.
Refco, the trading company, may be in financial trouble, but its good name lives on in Trader Monthly, a magazine that glamorizes the life of financial traders.
The October-November issue has four full pages of ads for Refco, whose bankruptcy filing (the fourth-largest in United States history), coupled with the arrest of its former chief executive on securities fraud charges, has been making headlines in other publications over the past month.
IT'S bad enough when newspaper editorials, Western human rights groups and ordinary American customers condemn your company for bowing to the Chinese dictatorship and contributing to oppression. But when the outrage begins rising, at great personal risk, from dissident voices trapped inside that dictatorship, well, that has to hurt.
Or not.
Leakers beware.
A freelance researcher at Condé Nast lost his job yesterday apparently because he leaked internal information to Gawker.com, the dishy Web site that makes fun of just about everything that passes across its screen.
What do you do after you have purchased your 100-foot mega-yacht? You shop around for one or two 25-foot inflatable boats as tenders.
The annual boating trade fair opened here on Oct. 8 and closed on Oct. 16, the largest in a series of big boat shows that stretch from Cannes, France, to Monaco to Fort Lauderdale, Fla.
In its biggest privatization deal to date, the government of Ukraine sold the country's largest steel mill for $4.8 billion to the steel magnate Lakshmi N. Mittal, the world's third-richest person.
Mittal Steel, which is largely controlled by Mr. Mittal and his family, will buy 93 percent of the Kryvorizhstal mill in the southern part of Ukraine. The mill shipped 6.7 million tons of steel in 2004.
Houlihan Lokey Howard & Zukin, a boutique investment bank that has worked on some of the nation's largest corporate bankruptcies, is negotiating to be sold to the Orix Corporation of Japan for more than $500 million, executives involved in the talks said yesterday.
A deal to sell Houlihan, which is based in Los Angeles, would end the independence of a firm that has made its name advising small and midsize corporations on mergers and acquisitions and advising companies and creditors on restructuring efforts as part of bankruptcies.
The fast-growing Banco Santander Central Hispano of Spain gained a toehold in the United States on Monday with a $2.4 billion deal for 19.8 percent of Sovereign Bancorp  of Philadelphia and an option to buy the whole bank after 2008.
Sovereign, which has been under pressure from some investors to improve its stock performance, plans to use the proceeds to purchase Independence Community Bank of Brooklyn, which has 120 branches in the New York metropolitan area, for $3.6 billion, Santander executives said.
For more than eight years, big banks lobbied aggressively to make it harder for consumers to file for bankruptcy.
Now that the new bankruptcy law has taken effect, was the investment worth it? The early data suggest that sometimes, you have to be careful what you wish for.
A group of investors led by J. Christopher Flowers, a former Goldman Sachs partner, withdrew its bid for the futures brokerage business of Refco late yesterday after a bankruptcy judge ruled that he would approve a sale only with a significantly lower breakup fee and a smaller reimbursement of fees.
Other bidders, however, emerged for the Refco unit, which Mr. Flowers had sought to acquire for $768 million. The Interactive Brokers Group offered $857.9 million, and a consortium led by the government of Dubai made a bid of $828 million. A group that includes Merrill Lynch, Warburg Pincus and Susquehanna International Group said it would be interested in the unit and would buy it without a breakup fee, but did not indicate a price. Other parties, including Apollo Management, the Man Group and Marathon Asset Management also stated their interest in the regulated entity.
With the stock market falling and companies laying off workers, the Federal Reserve under Alan Greenspan was racing to prevent a recession in the early months of 2001. Again and again, the Fed cut its benchmark short-term interest rate to encourage families and businesses to borrow, and spend, money.
But to an economics professor in Princeton, N.J., named Ben S. Bernanke, the pace of the rate reductions was a bit rash.
Like many part-time real estate investors, Fintan Murray, a Queens-based electrical contractor, used to buy only houses. He owns the single-family home in Whitestone where he lives as well as a two-family home in Maspeth and a three-family home in Woodside, which he rents out.
But two years ago, Mr. Murray realized that soaring housing prices were making it more difficult for him to collect enough rent to pay back a mortgage on a two- or three-family home, so he began looking for a moderately priced apartment building instead. The hunt paid off in August when he bought a 16-unit brick rental property in Sunnyside for $1.8 million. He has already started to renovate it.
TO reintroduce a struggling brand, the Campbell Soup Company is giving consumers a song and dance -- literally.
A campaign that began this week for the Campbell's Select line of higher-priced soups features the actor John Lithgow singing and dancing in commercials that offer humorous tributes to the brand. The campaign, carrying the theme ''Why settle when you can Select,'' is being created by BBDO Worldwide in New York, part of the Omnicom Group.
In 1960, when Harry Macklowe started his career as a leasing broker with Julian Studley's tenant representation company, his office was in an oddly shaped, masonry-clad, 1920's-vintage building on Madison Avenue between 43rd and 44th Streets.
Because there had been two holdouts when the land for the structure was being assembled, the building was constructed with thin fingerlike sections between and alongside the holdout properties. In the days before air-conditioning this was not a completely bad thing, since windows on both sides of the narrow sections provided cross ventilation.
Amazon.com, the online retail company, reported yesterday that its profit declined in the third quarter, partly as a result of a legal settlement, while sales of the latest Harry Potter book helped increase revenue by 27 percent.
The company's net income fell some 44 percent in the period, to $30 million, or 7 cents a share, compared with $54.1 million, or 13 cents a share, a year earlier. Sales rose 27 percent, to $1.86 billion, from $1.46 billion a year earlier, and were largely in line with forecasts. Excluding the effects of the legal settlement of $40 million, earnings would have been $50 million, or 12 cents a share, the company said, 2 cents more than analysts forecast.
An online classified service being tested by Google set off intense speculation on Tuesday after a Web site for the service was accidentally made public and discovered by a computer programmer on Monday.
The service, which was named Google Base and was for a time accessible at base.google.com, described itself as ''Google's database into which you can add all types of content.''
The Charles Dolan family withdrew its bid yesterday to take the Cablevision Systems Corporation private, after negotiating since June, and asked directors to approve a $3 billion dividend to shareholders.
The family, which controls 71 percent of the vote and 22 percent of the equity in Cablevision, issued a terse statement yesterday saying that it ''has become clear that we will be unable to reach an agreement'' with directors.
Hartmut Meine's office here overlooks an old graveyard. It is a fitting view for a man who is waging a twilight battle to keep his 114-year-old labor union viable, as global competition threatens to undo half a century of rights and privileges won by millions of German workers.
In the last month, Mr. Meine's union, IG Metall, has reached three wage deals with Volkswagen. In each case, VW demanded -- and won -- significant concessions, partly by threatening to move the production of one car to Portugal, where hourly wages are less than a third of those in Germany.
Lots of people call Wilbur L. Ross Jr. a vulture investor. He finds that ridiculous. If one must liken him to a bird, he says, then make it the phoenix, the mythical creature that repeatedly rises from its own ashes.
''Vultures pick off the flesh and leave the carcass to rot,'' he said, during a conversation in the Manhattan offices of W.L. Ross & Company, his investment firm. ''We help dying companies survive and grow.''
The nation's three big makers of implantable heart devices all said late yesterday that they had received subpoenas from the Department of Justice, which has apparently begun an investigation into whether any of the companies offered illegal payments or other inducements to doctors to use their products.
The three companies, Medtronic, the Guidant Corporation and St. Jude Medical, all said that they had received subpoenas from the United States attorney in Boston.
Shares of the Guidant Corporation, a heart device maker, slid yesterday as investors took the news that the company had received two Justice Department subpoenas as a further sign that Johnson & Johnson would reduce or abandon its $25.4 billion offer to buy Guidant.
Late Monday, Guidant and two other makers of pacemakers and defibrillators, Medtronic and St. Jude Medical, disclosed that they had received subpoenas from the United States attorney in Boston as part of a federal investigation into whether the companies used illegal inducements to get doctors to use their products.
Responding to the accounting scandals at Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, the House of Representatives approved legislation on Wednesday overhauling the regulatory oversight of the two huge mortgage financing companies.
The legislation, approved by a lopsided vote of 331 to 90, would create a new regulator for the Federal Home Loan Banks and for Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, companies formally known as government-sponsored enterprises. The new agency, the Federal Housing Finance Agency, would be financed through assessments on the banks and companies. It would have the authority to set capital requirements, reject new business products being offered by the companies and limit their portfolio holdings.
Are Lucent Technologies' prospects fading again?
This might seem like an odd question for a telecommunications equipment maker that staved off bankruptcy after the Internet bubble burst by cutting costs and beefing up its wireless equipment division.
The future of television news is being decided week by week, network by network.
But in what is perhaps the most roiling period of transition in the history of network news, yesterday's appointment of Sean McManus as president of CBS News answered only one of many questions facing the industry.
For a 47-year-old advocacy group, AARP is acting a lot like a for-profit corporation these days.
Sure, it has long sold discounted products to its members, and encouraged companies to advertise their elder-friendly wares in AARP magazines. And such sales have long paid for its lobbying efforts on behalf of the needs and wants of older Americans.
First, Kim R. W. Bennetts scoured Colorado for an available drilling rig before taking his search to West Texas, New Mexico and Utah.
Finally, Mr. Bennetts, an executive at a Texas natural gas company, traveled more than 7,000 miles to the heartland of China to look for the right rig to drill four wells in the Piceance Basin, a booming exploration area in western Colorado.
Microsoft rode a wave of global strength in the personal computer market to report growth in profit and sales in the first quarter of its 2006 fiscal year, slightly exceeding analysts' expectations.
Microsoft, the world's largest software publisher, said Thursday that quarterly revenue was $9.74 billion, 6 percent higher than $9.19 billion in the quarter last year. Earnings rose 24 percent, to $3.14 billion, or 29 cents a share, from $2.53 billion, or 23 cents a share, a year earlier.
A sudden interruption in oil supplies sent prices and profits skyrocketing, prompting Exxon's chief executive to call a news conference right after his company announced that it had chalked up record earnings.
''I am not embarrassed,'' he said. ''This is no windfall.''
Treat, or trick?
After more than a decade of effort and a year of anticipation, Mars Inc. is finally rolling into stores with what it says is a healthy new sweet: a line of chocolate bars and chocolate-covered almonds.
Infinity Broadcasting wants to blanket Madison Avenue today with the message that it really, really, really believes there is life after Howard Stern.
To convey that ardor, all 24 full-page ads in the Oct. 31 issue of Advertising Age, the flagship magazine of the Ad Age Group, are being bought by Infinity to promote its new programming and the lineup of hosts who will succeed Mr. Stern on Jan. 3, after he signs off from Infinity radio stations and moves to Sirius Satellite Radio.
HARVEY WEINSTEIN'S epic battle with Michael D. Eisner was like watching Rodan vs. Godzilla, and in the end they both went flying off the cliff.
But Mr. Weinstein has already crawled his way out of the chasm and set about building a studio.
Plenty of bands have written songs complaining about their frustration with record labels. But Hanson, the band of three brothers that helped usher in a teenage pop craze with the 1997 hit ''MMMBop,'' has made an entire documentary film about its dismal experience on the label Island Def Jam.
Originally signed to Mercury Records, Hanson found itself with Island Def Jam as a result of major label mergers. In the fall of 2000, Hanson began recording what was to be its third major-label album of new material and hired a director, Ashley Greyson, to film the process. ''About eight months in, we realized there was going to be more difficulty than we thought,'' said Taylor Hanson, 22.
Telefónica of Spain agreed Monday to buy the British mobile phone company O2  for $31.5 billion in a deal that could spur greater competition in Europe's more established markets.
''My view is that Telefónica is in aggressive acquisition mode,'' said Satyajit Chatterjee, a credit analyst with Société Générale in London, referring to the price offered for O2.
SHORTLY after takeoff on a cross-country flight, I noticed that the middle-aged man in a business suit next to me looked a little pale. A few moments later, he slumped over.
''Are you O.K.?'' I asked. He didn't answer.
A federal judge gave preliminary approval on Monday to a proposed $195 million settlement between the accounting firm KPMG and hundreds of clients who bought certain tax shelters, but raised concerns over whether the deal was fairly reached.
The approval came after an unusual two-day hearing that pitted class-action lawyers against each other. Objectors to the settlement had argued that the law firm that brokered the deal, Milberg Weiss Bershad & Schulman, had colluded with KPMG and had engaged in conflicts of interest by representing individual former KPMG clients while secretly negotiating a settlement.
It has been a bad year for data security.
The Privacy Rights Clearinghouse, a consumer advocacy group in San Diego, has counted 80 data breaches since February, involving the personal information of more than 50 million people. The sensitive data -- names, Social Security and credit card numbers, dates of birth, home addresses and the like -- have either been lost by or stolen from companies and institutions that compile such data.
With an eye on a rapidly changing media environment, MTV Networks is expected to announce today that it has hired a prominent media strategist, Michael J. Wolf, a managing partner in the consulting firm of McKinsey & Company, as its president and chief operating officer.
Judy McGrath, the chairwoman of MTV Networks, will make the appointment official today, but in a telephone interview yesterday she called Mr. Wolf a star player in the media world with vast experience in devising business strategies for a wide range of media companies.
Sprint Nextel will announce a deal to offer cellphone services with the nation's three largest cable television operators as early as tomorrow, according to people briefed on the deal.
The agreement would enable Comcast, Time Warner Cable and Cox Communications to sell wireless services in addition to the television programming, broadband service and digital phone lines they already offer. No financial terms were immediately disclosed.
Making a big move into the vaccine business, the Swiss pharmaceutical giant Novartis said yesterday that it would acquire control of the Chiron Corporation, a manufacturer of flu shots that has been beset by quality control problems.
Novartis, which already owns 42 percent of Chiron, will pay $45 a share, or a total of $5.1 billion, for the 113 million shares of Chiron it does not already own.
Inside a stuffy, windowless room here, veterans of the 2004 Bush and Kerry presidential campaigns sit, stand and pace around six plastic folding tables. Open containers of pistachio nuts and tropical trail mix compete for space with laptops and BlackBerries. CNN flickers on a television in the corner.
The phone rings, and a 20-something woman answers. ''Turn on Fox,'' she yells, running up to the TV with a notepad. ''This could be important.''
If Ben S. Bernanke has his way, the Federal Reserve is likely to become more open, less mysterious and perhaps less intriguing than it is right now.
In an article he wrote with other academics -- long before President Bush nominated him to succeed Alan Greenspan as Fed chairman -- Mr. Bernanke bluntly argued that the Fed needed to base its credibility on more than the mystique of its chairman.
A Merck lawyer questioned the plaintiff's credibility in a closing argument Monday at the Vioxx personal injury trial here, saying that the drug had not caused the man's heart attack.
The lawyer, Diane Sullivan, told the panel of nine jurors, six women and three men, that the plaintiff, Frederick Humeston, 60, a postal worker from Idaho, had many risk factors that could have led him to suffer a heart attack in September 2001, which he survived. Those factors included Mr. Humeston's weight and his repeated clashes with his post office supervisors, Ms. Sullivan said.
Dell Inc. warned investors yesterday that its shift in strategy to focus on higher profit margins would result in lower-than-expected revenue and earnings in the third quarter.
The surprise announcement, made after the close of trading, pushed its shares down more than 4 percent in after-hours trading; shares were up 82 cents, to $31.88, in regular trading.
Los Angeles may be the car capital of America, but a few Angelenos, it seems, are beginning to consider leaving their cars at home.
Frustration with ever worsening traffic is stimulating new interest in denser, more urban patterns of development, a trend reflected by new mixed-use complexes near -- or right on top of -- transit stations.
Knight Ridder, the publisher of 32 daily newspapers including The Miami Herald and The Philadelphia Inquirer, has come under fire from its largest shareholder, which yesterday demanded that the company put itself up for sale.
The attack from Private Capital Management, a Naples, Fla., money management firm, came in the form of a letter to Knight Ridder's board, which cited a 14 percent decline in the stock of the company, the nation's second-largest newspaper publisher by circulation, since board members invited Private Capital and other investors to meet with them in July.
UBS, Europe's largest bank, reported a 71 percent increase in third-quarter profit Tuesday, benefiting from a boom in oil-related wealth in the Middle East and Asia.
UBS said it earned 2.77 billion Swiss francs ($2.15 billion) in the period, up from 1.62 billion francs a year earlier, as its wealth management unit increased the size of its asset portfolio by 31.1 billion francs.
Electronic Arts yesterday became the second major video game maker this week to warn that it was seeing soft demand from retailers as it heads into the holiday season.
A competitor, Take Two Interactive, told investors on Monday that results for its fiscal fourth quarter would miss previous projections, in part because orders from retailers have slowed. Take Two's stock plunged $3.12, or 15 percent, to close at $17.53 yesterday, a drop that analysts said was also tied to the delayed release of new games and disappointing financial performance.
Sun Microsystems, the maker of computer servers and software, reported yesterday that its quarterly revenues rose slightly and that its net loss narrowed as it benefited from two acquisitions.
After years as one of Silicon Valley's biggest success stories, Sun's revenues began a free fall nearly five years ago. But while the company appears to be gaining traction, its latest results indicate that it is still too early to claim a turnaround, analysts said.
ATA Airlines, once the busiest carrier in Indianapolis but shrinking during bankruptcy proceedings in the last year, said yesterday that it would cancel its last three daily flights out of the city, which is its headquarters, as of Jan. 10.
The move, however, is not expected to disrupt travel into and out of Indianapolis, which has continued to experience strong growth at its airport and has had little trouble attracting other carriers, notably Northwest Airlines, to take up the slack left by ATA, a subsidiary of ATA Holdings.
Jamie Olis, a former midlevel executive at Dynegy who was sentenced last year to 24 years in prison for accounting fraud, can breathe a little easier.
A federal appeals court has ordered a judge in Houston to revise the sentence for Mr. Olis, 39, a tax accountant who helped devise a secret project in 2001 to disguise a $300 million loan as cash flow. Among those convicted for white-collar crimes in recent memory, Mr. Olis's eye-popping sentence has been surpassed only by the 25-year prison term given in July to Bernard J. Ebbers, the former chairman of WorldCom.
A New York state judge indicated yesterday that he would deny a motion by Richard A. Grasso, the former New York Stock Exchange chairman, to limit a lawsuit that seeks the return of more than $100 million of Mr. Grasso's compensation.
Gerson A. Zweifach, a lawyer for Mr. Grasso, argued that the New York attorney general, Eliot Spitzer, did not have the authority to bring four of the six claims brought against Mr. Grasso.
FOR much of the year, copper prices climbed steadily, driven by a housing boom in the United States and demand from the rapidly industrializing economies of India and China. Supply disruptions further fed the price gains.
If that sounds similar to the story of crude oil futures this year, it should. Like oil, copper has attracted a wave of new money from hedge funds and other big investors seeking to ride the rally.
You would never guess that Jon Spallino drives what is probably the most expensive car in this city known for automotive excess. Or that he is the world's most technologically advanced commuter.
''When the cars pull up to me, the Porsches and the Bentleys and all that, I just sort of say, well, that's nice, but for what this costs I could buy 10 of those,'' said Mr. Spallino, while driving up Interstate 405, the freeway from his office in Irvine toward his home in Redondo Beach.
Microsoft introduced on Tuesday two new advertising-supported Web services, Windows Live and Office Live, as a direct response to the formidable challenges posed by its major competitors, Google and Yahoo.
The new online initiatives will deliver services to businesses and consumers directly via the Web, in many cases, without the need to download the applications to a computer. As such, they are an important step in extending Microsoft's reach beyond the desktop PC to smart phones and other Internet-connected devices.
After seven weeks of testimony and often heated legal wrangling, a jury of six women and three men began deliberations here on Tuesday in Humeston v. Merck, the second Vioxx-related lawsuit to go to trial.
The jury received the case after a two-hour closing argument from the plaintiff's lawyer, Christopher Seeger, who urged jurors to hold Merck accountable for hiding information about Vioxx's heart risks from doctors.
A judge in Arkansas yesterday tossed out part of Wal-Mart's lawsuit against its former vice chairman, Thomas M. Coughlin, citing an agreement that bars the former executive and the company from suing each other. Mr. Coughlin has been accused by Wal-Mart of misusing up to $500,000 of company money.
Wal-Mart Stores, the nation's largest retailer, sued to prevent Mr. Coughlin from collecting about $12 million worth of retirement benefits. It has accused Mr. Coughlin, who had effectively been the No. 2 executive, of dipping into company funds to pay for everything from beer to a customized dog kennel.
The Bush administration is proposing to allow foreign airlines and other foreign investors to control the management of airlines based in the United States, a move intended to attract capital to hard-pressed carriers.
Jeff Shane, a Transportation Department official, said the proposed rule change could have a profound impact on the airline business here and abroad, by lowering barriers to global investment. The proposal comes as the administration is also seeking to offer European nations some inducement to open their markets further to American airlines.
Google said yesterday that it had completed the first major expansion of its Google Print database of searchable books, adding the full text of more than 10,000 works that are no longer under copyright, culled from the collections of four major research libraries.
The additions, from the university libraries at Michigan, Harvard and Stanford and from the New York Public Library, represent the first large group of material to be made available electronically from those libraries, which along with Oxford University contracted with Google last year to let the company scan and make searchable the contents of much or all of their collections.
Jeff McClusky, a music entrepreneur who emerged as an influential behind-the-scenes player in the 1990's by devising a technique to curry favor with radio programmers while sidestepping laws against bribery, said this week that he was dumping the business model he pioneered.
The move by Mr. McClusky comes three months after the New York attorney general, Eliot Spitzer, stunned the music business with revelations that the nation's second-biggest music corporation, Sony BMG Music Entertainment, bribed radio station personnel and engaged in other improper promotion practices. In a settlement with Mr. Spitzer, Sony BMG agreed to a series of changes -- including severing ties to certain independent promoters -- and to pay $10 million.
The chief executive of the Swiss drug company Novartis, Dr. Daniel L. Vasella, said on Wednesday that the company would consider building a vaccine production plant in the United States amid concern that its deal for the Chiron Corporation would leave the United States overly reliant on foreign companies for flu vaccine supplies.
Novartis won approval this week from independent directors of Chiron, the only major United States producer of flu vaccines, to buy, for $5.1 billion, the 58 percent of the company that it does not already own. The deal is still subject to approval by Chiron shareholders and government regulators.
Some people have a compulsion to run their own show. Others like the thrill of building a company from scratch. Still more just want to make a lot of money.
Then there are the dreamers, the people who want to make the world a better place. The idealism that drives them takes many forms, one of them so unusual that it probably cannot be tracked or measured: witnessing a medical trauma close up and resolving to do whatever it takes to spare other people from suffering the same fate.
FROM 1990 to 2000, the number of people working in the United States grew by more than nine million, or around 8 percent, from immigration alone. What effect did all those new foreign-born workers have on the wages of native-born Americans?
The answer seems obvious at first. An increase in the supply of workers should push down wages, just as a bumper crop of wheat drives down wheat prices.
The Cablevision Systems Corporation said yesterday that its board had authorized management to prepare to pay a $3 billion dividend that the Dolan family, which controls the company, proposed last week.
The dividend would pay the Dolan family more than $650 million.
Paramount Pictures is expected on Thursday to name the talent agent John Lesher, whose clients include film directors like Martin Scorsese and David O. Russell, to be the president of its struggling Paramount Classics specialty division, people briefed on the negotiations said.
Mr. Lesher, 39, a partner at the Endeavor Talent Agency, would succeed David Dinerstein and Ruth Vitale, who founded the classics division eight years ago and ran it until they were fired Oct. 6 by Brad Grey, Paramount's chairman and chief executive. Mr. Grey has replaced several top managers since taking over the moribund studio in January.
Nortel Networks said on Wednesday that it narrowed its third-quarter loss to $105 million, from $259 million a year earlier, helped by increased sales of Internet-related products.
The company, a maker of telecommunications equipment based in Brampton, Ontario, said revenue in the period rose to $2.66 billion, from $2.18 billion, as Internet equipment sales increased 41 percent, to $754 million.
SIRIUS SATELLITE RADIO is joining the growing ranks of media outlets that accept liquor advertising, as it begins running musical commercials for Tanqueray gin.
The commercials consist of a hip-hop song titled ''Get Your Ice On,'' which can also be heard on several Web sites sponsored by Tanqueray. The spots, at two and a half minutes long, are running on Sirius channels like Cracked Up Comedy, Maxim Radio, OutQ Radio and Sports Byline.
Melissa Paredes, a 16-year-old in Lompoc, Calif., maintains a Web site where she writes poetry, posts pictures and shares music. So when she was mourning her stepfather, David Grabowski, earlier this year, she reflexively channeled her grief into a multimedia tribute.
Using images she collected and scanned from photo albums, she created an online slide show, taking visitors on a virtual tour of Mr. Gabrowski's life -- as a toddler, as a young man, at work. A collage of the photographs, titled ''David Bruce Grabowski, 1966-2005,'' closes the memorial.
VIACOM announced yesterday that the new CBS Corporation would acquire CSTV Networks, a cable channel and confederation of Web sites that focus entirely on college sports. The purchase will be made with $325 million in stock to be issued next year by CBS, which will be created after its split from Viacom.
CSTV started in April 2003 largely as the cable channel College Sports TV, carrying some major sports, like basketball and football, but primarily showing sports that were seen far less frequently, like rugby, squash, wrestling, volleyball and water polo.
The world's biggest bank is hiring the former head of the World Bank. Citigroup said yesterday that James D. Wolfensohn, 71, who left as president of the World Bank last spring after 10 years at the helm, would serve as a global strategy adviser to senior management and clients. He will also become chairman of the Citigroup International Advisory Board in 2006.
His appointment comes just a day after Shengman Zhang, 48, a World Bank managing director from China, was named vice chairman of Citigroup's global banking division and head of its public sector group.
Wachovia has been the only big bank without its own big credit card business. Yesterday, it announced plans to re-enter the credit card market as a direct issuer, starting in January 2006.
The decision effectively ends the joint-marketing agreement that for the last six years has allowed MBNA to solicit Wachovia customers for credit card business. MBNA agreed to be acquired for $35 billion by Bank of America in June, after Wachovia passed on a deal.
Ford, in partnership with the ethanol producer VeraSun Energy, plans to announce today that it will subsidize the installation of ethanol fuel pumps at gas stations around the Midwest. Ford also said it would increase the number of vehicles it builds that can burn fuel with as much as 85 percent ethanol.
In addition, Ford said it would work with dealers to emphasize the availability of ethanol-burning cars in areas where the fuel is sold.
The prospects that Johnson & Johnson will reach a new agreement to buy Guidant appeared to diminish yesterday, with people involved in the talks expressing for the first time skepticism that the companies will be able to resuscitate the transaction.
The companies remained at an impasse over the price of a renegotiated deal, the people involved said, with each side expressing increased frustration with the other. The initial deal was worth $25.4 billion, or $76 a share.
Deal Makers
Goldman Sachs and Citigroup advised Telefónica of Spain on its $31.5 billion deal for O2 of Britain. J. P. Morgan Cazenove and Merrill Lynch advised O2.
What gas price crisis?
From discounters to department stores, retailers reported surprisingly strong results for October, despite fears that high fuel costs would keep shoppers at home.
WHEN Joe Schoendorf, a Silicon Valley venture capitalist, was in Shanghai a few years ago to hear a pitch from a Chinese start-up company, he sensed something familiar. He interrupted the meeting, walked to the window and pulled back the curtains.
''What are you looking for?'' he remembers the would-be entrepreneurs asking.
Earlier this year, the feminist writer Susan Estrich said that women's bylines appeared far less frequently than men's on newspaper opinion pages like those of The Los Angeles Times. Now, a Condé Nast editor is making a similar case against several of publishing's top general-interest magazines -- including some owned by Condé Nast.
Ruth Davis Konigsberg, a deputy editor at Glamour, began counting bylines in Harper's, The New Yorker, The New York Times Magazine, Vanity Fair and The Atlantic Monthly. Since the beginning of September, she has tallied 324 male bylines and 99 female ones. She has displayed the results on a Web site, www.womenTK.com.
Television viewers in Montgomery, Ala., might have an opportunity to get to know Richard M. Scrushy, the former chief executive of the HealthSouth Corporation, a lot better.
Mr. Scrushy's son-in-law, Michael Plaia, acquired a cable television station in the area just weeks before Mr. Scrushy appeared in federal court to plead not guilty to charges of bribing a former governor of Alabama. And Mr. Plaia said he was open to broadcasting ''Viewpoint,'' a religious show that Mr. Scrushy was host of in Birmingham, Ala., while on trial there.
TRAVEL sites like Expedia, Travelocity and Orbitz already have their hands full with airlines and hoteliers -- their ''valued partners'' -- luring consumers away with sites that look more like full-service travel agencies every day. Now, here come Yahoo and AOL, and maybe even Google.
AOL, Yahoo and others have intensified their focus on the travel category in the past year, beefing up destination features, introducing tools and scooping up new users and marketers in the process. This trend has the online travel agencies bracing for the possibility that the portals could one day evolve into full-fledged competitors.
IT hardly ranks in the annals of ''gotcha!'' but right-wing blogs were buzzing for at least a few days last week when an unsigned Microsoft Word document was circulated by the Democratic National Committee. The memo referred to the ''anti-civil rights and anti-immigrant rulings'' of Samuel A. Alito Jr., a federal appeals court judge who has been nominated to the Supreme Court by President Bush.
The stern criticisms of Judge Alito rubbed some commentators the wrong way (Chris Matthews of MSNBC called it ''disgusting'' last Monday). But whatever the memo's rhetorical pitch, right-leaning bloggers revealed that it contained a much more universal, if unintended, message: It pays to mind your metadata.
Microsoft has emerged as the front-runner in the talks surrounding the potential sale of a stake in America Online, two people involved in the negotiations said. But despite a flurry of interest in AOL from Microsoft, Google and others, finding a deal has been harder than Time Warner may have hoped.
Behind the scenes, a number of questions remain that could hold up or even derail a potential transaction.
The pharmaceutical industry's version of a campaign bus, the ''Help Is Here Express,'' has toured 25 states this year to spread the word about charity prescription programs sponsored by drug companies.
But even as the bright orange bus travels from state to state enrolling patients in the programs, the assistance may be coming to a halt for thousands of elderly people.
A new method of crash-testing minivans showed that Honda, Nissan and Toyota models are among the safest when struck by a sport utility vehicle or a pickup truck, according to a report released Sunday.
The Insurance Institute for Highway Safety assessed the safety of six minivans by simulating a crash in which an S.U.V. or a pickup truck slammed into the side of the minivan at 31 miles an hour. The tests involved only new models that were not going to be redesigned by the manufacturer in the near future.
Alex Bogusky, the 42-year-old creative director of the advertising agency Crispin Porter & Bogusky, is somewhat beleaguered. Sitting in his cluttered office here, surrounded by masks he created for Burger King and other memorabilia from years of ad-making, he recalled a ''battle of the bands'' at Advertising Week in New York a few weeks earlier. Agencies had pitted their in-house rock bands against each other, and the Crispin band had not been treated well.
''People were cursing and throwing beer at us,'' Mr. Bogusky said. ''It's bumming me out. It makes me want to get out of the business.''
A Silicon Valley private equity firm plans to announce today that it is buying the Ingres database software from Computer Associates and setting it up as a stand-alone open-source software company.
The move by the firm, Garnett & Helfrich Capital, is a sign that professional investors are increasingly willing to bet there is a profitable future for companies based on the open-source model of software development. Open-source companies typically distribute the code free, but charge for maintenance and support services.
Independence Air, a low-fare airline that struggled with high fuel prices and stiff competition, filed for bankruptcy protection Monday and said that it would try to sell itself, in whole or in parts, within 60 days to avoid running out of cash.
The potential disappearance of Independence and its parent company, FLYi Inc., based at Washington Dulles International Airport, comes at a time when there are too many flights chasing too few passengers in some markets.
Microsoft released an updated version of its database program for large corporations yesterday, the first of a series of major updates to its core technologies that it plans to introduce in the next year.
The new version of SQL Server, the first major one in nearly five years, is intended to improve Microsoft's ability to compete with Oracle, the leading seller of corporate database software.
THE Lifetime cable channel, best known for appealing to middle-age women with weepy fare like ''Murder in the Hamptons'' and the biography series ''Intimate Portrait,'' has found an unorthodox way to tap into the youth market.
Beginning this week, it will use the success of one of its syndicated comedies, ''The Golden Girls,'' to create an elaborate wireless and online promotional campaign timed to coincide with the show's 20th anniversary. While a show centered on the lives of four Miami retirees may seem to be an unusual magnet for 18-to-34-year-old viewers, Lifetime executives say the sitcom is increasingly popular with that age group.
In an indication of growing tensions between human rights advocates and American Internet and technology companies doing business in countries with repressive regimes, a group of two dozen fund management firms and investment analysts issued a joint statement yesterday urging businesses to adopt policies addressing freedom of expression.
The move comes in the wake of public controversy over the decision by Yahoo's Beijing division to cooperate with Chinese authorities seeking to identify the user of a Yahoo e-mail address in China last year.
Investigators nicknamed the gang of shoplifters the Ghali organization after its leader, Mohammed K. Ghali, and organized it was. Every day, gang members stole, repackaged and resold up to $2,000 in infant formula, diabetes test strips, razor blades and nicotine gum from stores across northern Texas.
The gang controlled convenience stores to stockpile the merchandise and a warehouse to distribute it, according to court records. To keep morale up, leaders showered shoplifters with perks, from free transportation to bail money, as needed.
On an investor conference call last month, James Dimon, the chief executive-designate at J. P. Morgan Chase, was asked about his plans for a potential merger.
For Mr. Dimon, a Wall Street celebrity whose career has been defined by big, showy deals, such a question could not have come as a surprise.
As Iowa finishes harvesting its second-largest corn crop in history, Roger Fray is racing to cope with the most visible challenge arising from the United States' ballooning farm subsidy program: the mega-corn pile.
Soaring more than 60 feet high and spreading a football field wide, the mound of corn behind the headquarters of West Central Cooperative here resembles a little yellow ski hill. ''There is no engineering class that teaches you how to cover a pile like this,'' Mr. Fray, the company's executive vice president for grain marketing, said from the adjacent road. ''This is country creativity.''
In China these days, just about every form of commerce is thriving, including decidedly illegal ones like prostitution and counterfeiting. But not coffin making.
For centuries, this city's Longevity Lane was the best-known place in China to buy top-quality cedar coffins. Legend has it that the city's reputation was established when Liu Zhongyuan, a great poet of ninth-century China, died here in domestic exile and his body was placed in a cedar coffin for shipment to his home province in northern China. After a journey of six months, the poet's body is said to have been as fresh as the day he died.
Five of the country's top oil executives walked into a large Congressional hearing room on Wednesday -- one filled with nearly a third of all senators and with hundreds of other people, a dozen of them wearing T-shirts reading ''Expose Exxon.''
Senators from both parties demanded that the executives defend their record profits, amid soaring retail prices for oil and natural gas and suspicions of gasoline price manipulation. The confrontation was a bit theatrical.
YOU just know that certain technologies, once they become inexpensive and easy to use, will be earth-shattering hits: instant viewing of any movie ever made; nonpolluting cars; cellphones that don't drop calls.
Don't look now, but one longstanding member of the Someday Club has just become a reality, more or less: anytime, anywhere wireless downloading of favorite songs for instantaneous listening -- no computer necessary.
YESTERYEAR'S clichés can be correct. At least for an unpopular president, it really is the economy, stupid. Approval ratings under 40 percent usually reflect a lack of confidence that the administration knows how to manage economic problems.
That is not to say that economic issues are the only ones that matter. Iraq and Hurricane Katrina hurt.
Google  plans to introduce free analytical tools for online publishers and marketers today, a move that would help the company's clients get a better sense of Web site traffic patterns and advertising campaigns.
Online analytic tools help publishers determine how often people have viewed certain pages and clicked on certain links within those pages. The free services will be integrated into Google's lucrative AdWords program, in which marketers for, say, wrenches, pay to have their ads appear near search results whenever online users search for ''automotive tools.'' Google Analytics will crunch numbers on behalf of users, telling them how often visitors who saw an ad associated with ''automotive tools'' clicked on the ad, versus those who searched for ''hardware stores.''
IT'S not tough to see why small companies have avoided the chorus of Internet cheerleaders. The Web has been where they get dragged through so-called reverse auctions -- where big customers watch them duke it out with 10 other suppliers for the right to sell goods at the lowest possible price.
But now, at last, Internet companies are giving suppliers the chance to pass along that pain.
The latest album from Johnny and Donnie Van Zant, ''Get Right With the Man,'' delivers ''anthems with the sort of conviction that will inevitably inspire raised fists and chorus sing-a-longs,'' says Amazon.com's official music reviewer.
Fists are raised all right, but not in the way the Van Zants would have hoped.
Working with Pentagon funds in the 1960's and 1970's, a small group of designers created a pioneering research network called the Arpanet and a software framework that could let an unlimited number of computers exchange data.
Their creation, which came to be known as the Internet, was decentralized in nature, with its maintenance and administration left mostly to academia and the private sector in the United States. Government intervention was limited.
EBay is expected to announce Monday that it is ending the fees it charges software developers who build Web sites and software programs that channel buyers and sellers its way.
The move could help eBay protect its dominance of online auctioneering from an encroachment by Yahoo or Google.
Sun Microsystems is set to announce the first of a new generation of processors for computer servers on Monday that the company says offers faster performance with far less energy use.
Sun Microsystems, once a high flier in Silicon Valley, hopes that the new chip, called the UltraSparc T1, will help it win back the market share it lost to higher-performing yet less expensive Unix servers the last few years.
In January a group of Microsoft researchers set out to discover how much computing power they could buy for less than $4,000 at a standard online retailer.
They found the answer at NewEgg.com, where they were able to purchase -- for just $3,632 -- 9.5 gigaflops of computing speed. That is the amount of computing power offered by a Cray Y-MP supercomputer in 1991 at a cost of $40 million.
Thomas H. Lee Partners, the private equity firm that owns more than half of Refco, the collapsed futures and commodities brokerage firm, sued former Refco executives yesterday, seeking to recover at least $245 million.
The lawsuit was filed in Federal District Court in Manhattan against Philip R. Bennett, the former chief executive of Refco who was indicted by a grand jury last week on securities fraud charges; Tone Grant, the former president of Refco; and Santo C. Maggio, the former president and chief executive of Refco Securities L.L.C., an unregulated subsidiary of Refco. The lawsuit seeks to recover a portion of the $453 million paid by three Lee funds to buy 57 percent of Refco in 2004.
Unexpectedly warm weather has bathed much of the United States in recent weeks, but fears persist that a classic energy shock may be unfolding as the nation heads into winter.
This time, though, the coming squeeze is in natural gas rather than oil.
A few years ago, Russia's finance officials could only dream of the problem Aleksei L. Kudrin described recently.
Thanks to bountiful revenue from oil exports, the Kremlin is in a position to pay $15 billion in sovereign debt ahead of schedule next year.
When regulars like Dr. Laurence Wiener check into the Mandarin Oriental in Manhattan, they get more than a smile from the concierge and a mint on their pillow. Dr. Wiener's hotel room knows how warm he likes it -- 68 degrees. It welcomes him with a personal message on his television set. It even loads his most frequently dialed numbers onto the phone.
And the bellhop did not have to do a thing.
The global music giant Sony BMG yesterday announced plans to recall millions of CD's by at least 20 artists -- from the crooners Celine Dion and Neil Diamond to the country-rock act Van Zant -- because they contain copy restriction software that poses risks to the computers of consumers.
The move, more commonly associated with collapsing baby strollers, exploding batteries, or cars with faulty brakes, is expected to cost the company tens of millions of dollars. Sony BMG said that all CD's containing the software would be removed from retail outlets and that exchanges would be offered to consumers who had bought any of them.
Johnson & Johnson will pay $4 billion less than it had originally agreed to acquire Guidant, the troubled maker of implantable heart devices, under a revised $21.5 billion deal announced yesterday.
The new agreement is an apparent acknowledgment by Guidant of how significantly its outlook has declined because of disclosures about product problems, device recalls, investigations and lawsuits.
Cellphones here have cash chips that let shoppers swipe them at the register like debit cards. They have crisp color screens for watching television shows and music videos. They have full-fledged Web browsers, and they even have fingerprint readers and cameras with face-recognition software that lock up a phone if a stranger tries to use it.
Interested in getting one? Good luck. You cannot buy one outside Japan.
In a report to be released today, the Government Accountability Office strongly urges Congress to act to protect military personnel from the deceptive sales practices and unsuitable investments and insurance policies that the report says have been a disturbing fact of military life.
The Senate Committee on Banking, Housing and Urban Affairs will examine the study at a hearing today in Washington. The report's delivery to Congress clears the way for the Senate to consider a bill that has been pending since early this year. The bill has twice passed the House with strong bipartisan support.
For retailers, the day after Thanksgiving is a painstakingly orchestrated affair.
Prices are scientifically slashed, down to the penny. Sales begin at dawn. And glossy circulars containing the well-laid plans are distributed just a day or two ahead to keep consumers and competitors in the dark.
THERE is a venerable Wall Street joke featuring an investor who, having accumulated a large position in an illiquid stock, decides it is time to get out. ''Yes, sir,'' replies the broker when he is told to sell. ''To whom?''
The current situation of Knight Ridder, the owner of newspapers including The Philadelphia Inquirer and The Miami Herald, brings back that joke, albeit painfully.
Abby Chan, a 23-year-old advertising copywriter, took a break from shopping for Levi's jeans at a mall here on Wednesday evening and relaxed at a table in a Starbucks restaurant.
Aside from coffee and denim, there were not many American brand products that interested her. She covets Chanel clothing and Louis Vuitton bags, dreams of owning a BMW or Mercedes-Benz someday, and struggles to think of an American brand that appeals to her.
Google became a verb before it became a public company. Now it has also become a $400 stock.
Just 15 months after the company went public in an unusual auction at $85 a share, which was less than the company had hoped and was widely viewed as disappointing, Google traded yesterday above $400 for the first time, closing at $403.45, up $5.30. The gain helped lift the Nasdaq composite index, which rose 1.5 percent, to 2,220.46, to its highest close since June 2001.
It is a war on rising hospital costs, being fought one tiny balloon at a time. And as with most wars, some of the tactics are controversial.
Until recently, some cardiologists at the PinnacleHealth System hospital group in Pennsylvania would inflate a new artery-opening balloon each time they inserted a stent into a patient's clogged arteries. Now, if they can, these doctors will use a single balloon throughout a patient's procedure.
AS if life on Madison Avenue is not challenging enough, the results of a widely followed annual survey show that many aspects of the relationships between agencies and their advertiser clients continue to be rated at or near historic lows.
The survey, to be formally released today, strongly suggests that significant differences still prevent advertisers and agencies from working together more productively. That is a concern because campaigns created when both sides trust, respect and understand each other tend to be more effective in selling products, and help to dispel perceptions among marketers that the money they spend on advertising is wasted.
Even though ''American Idol'' is the financial lifeblood of Fox's prime-time business, the network has kept news about its hit talent-contest series almost completely under wraps in the last several months.
There are reasons for the low profile. For one, Fox executives have been delaying an announcement about the show's January starting date while they ponder what would amount to a major move: an aggressive relocation of the show from its traditional two-night schedule of Tuesday and Wednesday to Wednesdays and Thursdays.
Sometime soon, somewhere in the country, an aspiring groom will go down on bended knee, present a ribboned blue box to his sweetheart and watch as she beholds the yellow diamond ring on which he spent $10,000.
And unless his fiancée has a highly refined sense of irony, somewhere in that gentleman's mind he'll be hoping she doesn't ask where he got it.
In 2000, when C. J. Kettler was the president for sales and marketing at Oxygen Media, she boasted that the company was a ''point of convergence'' between cable television and the Internet.
Oxygen, after all, was started by Geraldine Laybourne, the former MTV executive, and had backing from TV powerhouses like ABC, which is owned by the Walt Disney Company, Oprah Winfrey and America Online, a unit of Time Warner.
Twenty years ago, when Sidney Verba became director of the Harvard University Library, he thought there was a good chance he would enjoy a placid transition into retirement.
Placid is not the word Mr. Verba would use to describe his life now. ''Challenging'' or ''exciting'' would better fit the bill, he said, choosing his words carefully.
LAST week's string of dismal headlines about the newspaper business eventually began to resemble a multivehicle pileup on the freeway. There was so much carnage it was difficult for even the most determined rubbernecker to know where to look.
On Wednesday, Bob Woodward, the man who built his career on protecting a single Watergate source, became impaled by his efforts to protect another. Who would have thought that one of the journalists responsible for the ubiquitous ''gate'' suffix denoting scandal would end up with it being attached to his name?
TiVo, the maker of digital video recorders, plans to announce a new feature on Monday that will let TiVo owners watch recorded television shows on Apple's video iPods and on Sony's handheld PSP game machine.
The announcement builds on TiVo's release in February of an update to its video recorders that allows its users to transfer programs to personal computers and DVD's, as well as to portable video players that support Microsoft's mobile video format. When the company releases new software in the first quarter of next year, it will extend that capability to the video iPod, released last month, and the Sony PSP.
When Dan Fairbanks received word from General Motors early Monday morning that his plant had been tagged for closing next year, there were few people in the factory to tell.
About two-thirds of the 300 hourly employees at the Lansing Craft Center, where Mr. Fairbanks is the president of a local chapter of the United Automobile Workers, are temporarily laid off. In fact, they have not worked for most of the year. The Lansing Craft Center is still scheduled to ratchet up production early next month but will close for good sometime next year.
General Motors, the world's largest auto company, announced details on Monday of a three-year blueprint to revive its fortunes, including 5,000 job cuts on top of 25,000 previously announced. Analysts immediately questioned whether the plan was enough, saying it lacked the speed and breadth that had helped rivals make comebacks.
Rick Wagoner, G.M.'s chief executive, said the jobs cuts along with plant closings were ''necessary for G.M. to get its costs in line with our major global competitors.''
Robert S. Miller started off as the Oracle of Delphi, handing down dire pronouncements about the auto industry from his lofty post as chief executive of the parts supplier.
But with the Delphi Corporation in bankruptcy proceedings, Mr. Miller, known as Steve, has come charging down from the mountaintop to confront Delphi's unions in a way that Detroit has rarely seen.
Every day Tom Cabrera, a 27-year-old auto mechanic who lives in Middletown, R.I., drinks a can of SoBe No Fear energy drink on his way to work. Later in the day, if he goes to the gym, he downs another before his workout.
He says he probably could not get through the day without one. ''It lifts me up. One minute I'm dragging and then it's like 'Pow!' '' he said, widening his eyes.
Just before Christmas in 1991, Arthur Dunkel distributed what by international trade standards was a radical document.
Fed up with five years of inconclusive talks on liberalizing global trade, Mr. Dunkel, who ran the organization that was the precursor to the World Trade Organization, distributed a 500-page draft agreement to 108 member nations. It spelled out exactly what he thought a fair compromise should be for dozens of different disputes, from textiles to banking.
The huge chemical spill in the Songhua River that threatens the water supply of Harbin, an old industrial city located in China's frigid, northeastern corridor, has focused attention on the environmental and economic challenges faced by the country's withering rust belt.
Long before Harbin's officials were forced to confront the contamination of the city's water however, they had embarked on a radical step, one increasingly common among cities in China: fearful of losing out during the country's economic boom, they had begun efforts to move the center of the city north, across the winding Songhua, to a large plot of farm land.
There was a time long ago when the word ''computer'' was a job description referring to the humans who performed the tedious mathematical calculations for huge military and engineering projects.
It is in the same sense that Kazushige Goto's business card says simply ''high performance computing.''
IN pop culture, nothing lasts forever. But U2 is coming close.
On the surface, the formula U2 used to send 20,000 fans into sing-along rapture at Madison Square Garden last Tuesday night was as old as rock 'n' roll: four blokes, three instruments, a bunch of good songs. Add fans, cue monstrous sound system, light fuse and back away.
They called it ''The Mongolian Cow Sour Yogurt Super Girl Contest,'' and for much of the year, this ''American Idol'' knockoff was one of the hottest shows on Chinese television.
By the time it ended in August, more than 400 million viewers had tuned in, making it one of the most-watched shows in China's television history and creating another blockbuster hit for a group of daring television producers here at Hunan TV in south central Hunan Province.
The cover of a certain magazine's ''Katrina Special'' features a displaced Gulf Coast resident with the caption: ''My name is Sally. I'm from New Orleans.'' Sally is a pit bull mix and the publication is Bark, an 8-year-old quarterly that Time has called ''the New Yorker of dog magazines.''
The issue, which includes features about people reunited with dogs and articles about pet-rescue efforts, is decidedly newsy for a magazine usually dedicated to such ephemera as dog-park intrigue and how to meditate with your pet.
Simon Cowell, the star of the Fox network's biggest hit, ''American Idol,'' cleared the way for his continued participation in the show yesterday when he settled a lawsuit brought by Simon Fuller, the producer of the series.
Representatives for each man said the settlement, which was reached yesterday, ended a £100 million ($171 million) copyright infringement lawsuit Mr. Fuller had filed against Mr. Cowell in a British court. Mr. Fuller had accused Mr. Cowell of stealing the creative elements of the ''Idol'' franchise for his own television talent contest, ''X-Factor.''
Daniel and Linda Hawkins expected to lose some amenities when they moved to this small farming town, population 1,759, from a slightly larger city nearby. But they were so sure they would have high-speed Internet access that they had high-capacity wiring installed in every room in the house.
After all, many farmers who live nearby subscribe to a high-speed wireless service provided by Prairie iNet, a small company based outside Des Moines, and they zip effortlessly around the Web.
After Linda Packer, a 64-year-old social worker in Manhattan, fell twice over the Memorial Day weekend and felt vaguely unwell, a series of tests revealed a serious problem: one of the two main arteries carrying blood to her brain was more than 80 percent blocked by plaque.
Hers was a fairly advanced case of a condition, known as carotid artery disease, that becomes increasingly common with age and has been linked to 25 percent of the 700,000 strokes in this country each year. It also leads to millions of cases of mini-stroke, memory loss and other brain impairments that interfere with daily life.
Six months ago, the Bush administration warned that it would accuse China of currency manipulation if it failed to make substantial changes to its fixed peg between the yuan and the dollar.
In July, China allowed the yuan to rise by 2 percent, the first change in more than 10 years, but it has not budged since.
Gasoline is cheaper than it was before Hurricane Katrina slammed into New Orleans. Consumer confidence jumped last month and new- home sales hit a record. The stock market has been rising. Even the nation's beleaguered factories seem headed for a happy holiday season.
By most measures, the economy appears to be doing fine. No, scratch that, it appears to be booming.
For a while, Gabe Klein could easily keep track of every car in his territory simply by sticking pins on the wall-size map of the Washington metropolitan area in his office. No longer.
''It was nice to have a visual on the wall when we had 25 or 30 cars, but not with 200 cars in 130 locations,'' said Mr. Klein, a regional vice president for ZipCar, one of two companies trying to succeed at providing a relatively new service of short-term auto rentals in urban centers.
Ten years ago, Les Smith was a corporate bigwig, overseeing more than 350 employees as the manager of an oil refinery in the former Soviet Union. Today, he works in an industry he knows little about, supervises no one and reports to a very demanding boss: his wife.
''It's been a humbling experience,'' said Mr. Smith, who works for Angelica Beauty, a cosmetics company owned by his spouse, Angelica Smith. He joined the company about a year ago when the business, which Mrs. Smith opened in 2003, started to flourish.
Bruce Morrow worked for three years on the shores of Lake Samotlor, a tiny dot of water in a maze of oil wells and roads covering more than a thousand square miles of icy tundra in Siberia.
From the maps the Russians gave Mr. Morrow, he could never really know where he was, a misery for him as an oil engineer at a joint venture between BP and Russian investors. The latitude and longitude had been blotted out from his maps and the grid diverged from true north.
On Tuesday, the 1,366 owners of the New York Stock Exchange are likely to end an era and begin a new one by voting to convert the 213-year-old nonprofit public utility into a for-profit publicly traded company. The deal will give the Big Board a verve it has lacked: it will have the currency to acquire other exchanges, the freedom to make swift decisions without waiting for a consensus among its members and the ability to act like an entrepreneur and pursue sources of faster-growing revenue.
Oddly enough, Nasdaq could not be more pleased. The all-electronic exchange, the Big Board's traditional rival, has gone through its own makeover. It has substantially improved its financial condition and acquired Instinet, one of its top rivals. Soon Nasdaq is expected to win the right to call itself an exchange, allowing it to separate from its regulator by year-end. Combined with the Big Board's project to further automate its trading, the competition -- which has always made the Yankees-Red Sox rivalry look polite -- is set to explode.
Millennium Partners, one of the most successful hedge fund managers, agreed yesterday to a $180 million settlement over an elaborate, scheme to trade in and out of mutual funds.
Millennium's founder, Israel A. Englander, a prominent Wall Street figure for decades, will personally pay a $30 million fine under the civil settlement with Eliot Spitzer, the New York attorney general, and the Securities and Exchange Commission. Unlike previous mutual fund trading cases, Mr. Englander will not be required to step down from overseeing his $5.4 billion hedge fund firm.
Merrill Lynch acknowledged yesterday that its pension consulting unit in Florida, which advises nearly 100 funds in the state, had received a subpoena from the Securities and Exchange Commission as part of an investigation into conflicts of interest among advisers to pension funds.
The S.E.C.'s interest in the Merrill Lynch operation, in Jacksonville, Fla., appears to have grown out of its study of the pension consulting industry, in which it found conflicts at more than half the consultants it examined.
The word that Heather Dunne repeats most often this holiday season is no. No gas-guzzling trips to nearby Madison, Wis., for shopping; no splurging when Wal-Mart will suffice; no gifts over $10 for extended family.
With two small children, two cars in the driveway, a three-bedroom house to heat and one $60,000 income to pay for it all, Ms. Dunne and her husband, Jim, are exactly what the nation's retailers fear most this season: consumers determined to spend less.
Danny Mathis remembers his first years on the job building phone networks in northern Georgia in the 1970's. Then, Mr. Mathis and other technicians at Southern Bell, the predecessor to BellSouth, used to splice thick cables containing 3,600 pairs of wires, or 7,200 phone lines. He and his team would work all day to connect just two 500-foot sections of cable.
These days, Mr. Mathis works far more with fiber optic cable. A single hairlike strand can carry 672 phone calls simultaneously, funnel high-speed broadband connections to homes and carry televisions signals. Technicians can splice 500-foot lengths of fiber in about two hours.
For five decades or so, the television industry's main mission has been to come up with hit programs, get them on screens, and hope people will stop and watch. Now, that is just the starting point.
As an era of ordering TV shows at the push of a button gets underway, new challenges are clouding the landscape in the year ahead: What business models are going to work and who is going to get paid what?
When Vincent Papke joined I.B.M. in 1963, the implicit bargain was simple -- his labor and loyalty for security. Getting rich was not an expectation, but a steady job and regular raises were. The company, he recalled, was a kind of extended family. There were company basketball and softball teams, company activities for the kids, and company social gatherings like Christmas parties.
''They trained you,'' he said. ''You worked hard, you played hard and you advanced.''
Leading forecasters of advertising spending have turned cautious in their predictions for most media, except -- not surprisingly -- the Internet.
In a series of presentations yesterday, at the opening sessions of the 33rd annual UBS Global Media Conference in Midtown Manhattan, several analysts trimmed or stood pat on their growth estimates for this year and next.
In a room nearly as big as a football field, engineers at Saudi Aramco monitor the flow of 12 percent of the world's daily oil production.
Facing a curved display wall 10 feet high and 220 feet long, they manage production and pipeline flows while also directing giant tankers to export terminals in the Persian Gulf or the Red Sea. Ten million barrels of oil are tracked on these screens each day.
In an unusual advertisement that ran briefly in New York movie theaters, customers and employees suddenly begin to trash a Gap store. One man tackles a mannequin, tearing off its shirt with his teeth, while another slices through a display case with a chain saw. A woman, spotting the pandemonium, drives her minivan through the front doors.
The ad was intended to introduce a remodeled Gap store, but it may be a fitting metaphor for the retailer itself. Sales are slumping across all three divisions, several executives have left recently and Wall Street analysts are openly questioning whether the company's leadership is up to the job.
College graduates face the best job market in a decade, and wages are rising again. The lead stock market index has doubled in value in two years. Corporate profits are the highest in recent memory. And for the first time since 1990, land prices in Tokyo are up.
Could it be that Japan, long the sick man among major global economies, has finally recovered?
It is lunchtime at Grover Cleveland High School in Portland, Ore. A steady stream of thirsty teenagers poke dollars into the three Coca-Cola machines in the hallway. By the end of lunch period, the Coke With Lime, Cherry Coke and Vanilla Coke are sold out.
Elsa Peterson, a senior at Grover Cleveland and the student body president, said she knew she could bring healthier juices from home. ''But it's easy to walk up with a dollar and just get a pop.''
In the exclusive resort town of Naples, Fla., the fifth floor of a nondescript office building houses the headquarters of Private Capital Management, until recently a little-known money management firm that discreetly handles the investments of wealthy families.
But with a single letter pushing for the sale of Knight Ridder, Bruce S. Sherman, the 57-year-old, press-shy co-founder of Private Capital, has catapulted himself onto the business pages of virtually every newspaper in the country.
In the next day or two, the world will get a glimpse of how desirable, or not, newspapers are, when preliminary bidding begins for Knight Ridder.
The fate of the company, the second-largest newspaper publisher in the United States in terms of circulation, behind Gannett, is being closely watched as a signpost for the future of other newspapers at a time of great transformation, anxiety and uncertainty within the industry. The newspaper industry is on the defensive, with circulation stagnant, advertising dollars migrating to the Internet and newsrooms reducing their work forces to save costs.
General Motors said Wednesday that it was holding discussions with the investment firm run by its biggest shareholder, Kirk Kerkorian, about board representation for his company.
It is not clear how many seats Mr. Kerkorian's company, the Tracinda Corporation, is seeking. But one most likely would go to Jerome B. York, 67, a longtime adviser to Mr. Kerkorian and a former chief financial officer of the Chrysler Corporation.
CHIEF executives are increasingly convinced that activist investors -- usually hedge funds -- are running amok.
The executives might have taken comfort in securities laws that enable companies to sue major stakeholders for short-term profits if the investor bought and sold within a six-month window -- except that the rule does not apply to hedge funds.
THE new agency for the Mini Cooper is just the type that is remaking the way marketers approach advertising: smaller, creatively focused, independent and knowledgeable enough about technology to develop some unusual new ways to reach consumers.
The agency is Butler, Shine, Stern & Partners in Sausalito, Calif., which Mini USA named yesterday to take over the Mini Cooper account. Mini USA spends about $40 million a year on ads for the Mini Cooper line of subcompact coupes and sedans.
The British holding company Virgin Group said Thursday that it had raised the $177.3 million needed to start a low-fare airline in the United States, disquieting news to domestic carriers hoping for an industrywide reduction in fleet to help push up fares.
The new airline, Virgin America, would operate 17 narrow-body Airbus A320 planes on longer-distance domestic routes between major cities. A spokeswoman, Stacy Geagan, said the airline planned service from several cities, including New York and San Francisco. ''We can be ready in mid-2006,'' she added.
FOUR years after Enron's bankruptcy shocked investors -- and revealed that there was almost nothing there once the lies were stripped away -- reforms have changed many things in corporate America.
Corporate directors are newly empowered, and in many cases a lot better paid than they were in the old days. Auditors are more closely regulated, but in ways that have improved their income significantly. Wall Street's way of doing stock research has been turned around. Corporate officials must now personally certify their companies' financial results and the quality of the internal controls that assure accuracy. Mutual funds, with more independent directors, may seek to avoid paying too much to the managers who run and market the funds.
For OPEC, the easy days may be drawing to an end.
Thanks to strong demand, a global economy that continues to show strength, limited increases in supplies from producers like Russia and Kazakhstan, and repeated interruptions in production from the Gulf of Mexico, members of the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries have gone through 2005 with what has been, to them, a perfect alignment of stars: high prices along with high production and high demand.
Electronic Arts, the video game publisher, said on Thursday that it had reached a $680 million deal to acquire Jamdat Mobile, which makes games to be played on mobile phones.
The purchase, the largest ever by Electronic Arts, signifies an aggressive move into the relatively new mobile-game business. Some analysts say the category will boom as handsets become more sophisticated and allow for more elaborate graphics and intricate games, and as consumers become more comfortable with the mobile device as an entertainment platform.
So there I was Sunday night, minding my own business in the World of Warcraft online computer game, killing a few rock elementals in the Badlands, when I received two unsolicited private messages from a player with the unlikely name Hfasdlf.
Both messages said the same thing: ''Hi,plz visit http://www.zlywy.com. The low Price server$9.99=100G $39.99=500G $76.99=1000G.''
Yielding to pressure from regulators, lawmakers and interest groups, the country's biggest cable companies say they expect to introduce packages of family-friendly channels as early as the first quarter of 2006.
Kyle McSlarrow, the head of the National Cable and Telecommunications Association, which represents cable companies and programmers, told lawmakers yesterday that at least six cable companies, including the two largest, Comcast and Time Warner Cable, were developing packages of channels that would appeal to parents who want to shield their children from potentially offensive shows.
Visiting the offices of Skype feels like stumbling on to a secret laboratory in a James Bond movie, where mad scientists are hatching plots for world domination.
The two-year-old company, which offers free calls over the Internet, is hidden at the end of an unmarked corridor in a grim Soviet-era academic building on the outskirts of this Baltic port city. By 5 p.m. at this time of year, it is long past sunset, and a raw wind has emptied the streets.
In an apparent setback for Merck, a federal judge in Houston declared a mistrial yesterday in Plunkett v. Merck, the third Vioxx lawsuit to reach trial, after jurors said they were hopelessly deadlocked.
The panel of nine jurors had debated for about 18 hours on Thursday, Friday and Saturday. The lawsuit was brought by Evelyn Irvin Plunkett, the widow of Richard Irvin Jr., who died at age 53 in May 2001 after taking the Merck painkiller Vioxx for less than a month.
The people of this high Andean city were ecstatic when they won the ''water war.''
After days of protests and martial law, Bechtel -- the American multinational that had increased rates when it began running the waterworks -- was forced out. As its executives fled the city, protest leaders pledged to improve service and a surging leftist political movement in Latin America celebrated the ouster as a major victory, to be repeated in country after country.
Rob Newell spends his days fixing high-speed Internet connections. But when he returns to his home office here in western Maine, a two-hour drive from Portland, Mr. Newell is forced to use an abysmally slow dial-up connection that takes hours to download material he needs for business and makes it impossible to fix clients' computers remotely.
''It's quite difficult,'' said Mr. Newell, who owns Newell Consulting, a computer networking company. He cannot get high-speed Internet access from the phone company because the nearest central office, in Farmington, is 10 miles away, too far to maintain a connection. Hooking up his house by satellite would cost about $800 a month, he said. Any time he has to download new programs to upgrade his computer devices, he said, ''it's almost unfeasible.''
When it introduced its slate of fall programs, the WB Network had a clear-cut mission to broaden its audience beyond teenage girls. But executives weren't really looking for 50-year-old women.
That, however, turned out to be the audience tuning in to see the veteran actor Don Johnson in the show ''Just Legal.'' The program was canceled after three episodes.
Casting calls are going out on college campuses late next month for aspiring Rolling Stone writers who would also look good on MTV and want to become famous, or almost famous.
Jann Wenner, publisher of Rolling Stone, has signed a deal with MTV for a reality show in which the magazine gives internships to several journalism students, who then compete to become a Rolling Stone contract writer. This is not unlike the plot of ''Almost Famous,'' the semifictionalized hit movie by Cameron Crowe about his experience as a youth writing for, yes, Rolling Stone.
AMAZON, Walmart.com and other online retailing giants have always had upstarts nipping at their heels. But the little guys are starting to bite harder.
Just how sharp their teeth are, however, is a matter of some debate.
This time, it was Microsoft that was snubbed at the last minute.
In 1996, America Online agreed to offer Netscape's Internet browser to its five million customers. A day later, the nonbinding agreement was shunted aside when AOL announced that it had instead chosen Microsoft's Internet Explorer browser in a $100 million deal.
The FPL Group announced its $11 billion acquisition of Constellation Energy on Monday, one of the largest such transactions in the history of the American electricity industry, with a focus on using two decidedly retro energy sources, coal and nuclear power, to make the deal work.
Lewis Hay III, the chairman of FPL, who will become the chief executive of the new concern, spoke in a telephone interview about the need for greater fuel diversity. The combined company, which is to take the name Constellation, will become the nation's third-largest provider of nuclear-fueled electricity, after Exelon and Entergy, and one of the largest suppliers of coal-fired power.
China said on Tuesday that its economy, the fastest growing in the world, is larger than it had previously reported. The government reported this morning that its gross domestic product was nearly $2 trillion in 2004, not $1.6 trillion as it had previously reported, according to the National Bureau of Statistics.
The nationwide survey suggests that China's economic growth is an even more influential factor in the global markets and that its people are even richer and consume more than previously estimated.
WHAT kind of cellphone does your 5-year-old have?
Some people, no doubt, are shocked by the very question. Why on earth would an elementary schooler need a cellphone? Whatever happened to responsible parental supervision, making children earn their rewards, and sending them to play stickball outside?
''This was a sleepy little town when I moved here eight years ago,'' said Mohamad Moabi, from an office overlooking the turquoise waters alongside this city's crescent-shaped corniche, where dozens of half-built skyscrapers are going up. ''Now it's on the frontier of the global economy.''
Drawing on a cigarette as he gestured northward, Mr. Moabi, 44, the Lebanese-born chief economist at Qatar's largest bank, pointed to why this tiny emirate, no bigger than Connecticut, is elbowing aside other energy-rich countries to become the leader in the emerging international market for natural gas.
Jeffrey L. Bewkes was named president and chief operating officer of Time Warner yesterday, putting him in line to succeed the chief executive, Richard D. Parsons, who is fending off efforts by some investors to break up the company.
The elevation of Mr. Bewkes comes on the heels of the company's newly cemented joint venture between its America Online division and Google, but it had been widely expected. For the last three years, he has served as Mr. Parson's co-deputy along with Don Logan, a veteran Time Inc. publishing executive who joined the company 35 years ago. But Mr. Logan, 61, has openly contemplated retirement for some time and has been on a year-to-year contract.
The European Commission turned up the heat yesterday on Microsoft, the world's largest software company, threatening to fine it more than $2 million a day unless it agrees to share more technical information with competitors.
The commission's warning is the latest salvo in its increasingly acrimonious dispute with Microsoft over just what the company must do to comply with a 2004 antitrust ruling by the European Union. But the move also points to the growing gap between the antitrust policies of the United States and Europe.
Michelle Kwan has never won an Olympics gold medal. But that has not stopped her from grabbing several long-term commercial endorsement deals that typically only go to those athletes who bring home the gold.
As Ms. Kwan gears up for the 2006 Winter Olympics in Turin, Italy --probably the last chance for the 25-year-old figure skater -- she has already lined up major deals with Coca-Cola, Visa and East West Bank. She will be the lead Olympian in Coke's 2006 Olympic advertising plans, which include commercials on network and cable television as well as a major in-store promotional effort by Coke. Her image will be stamped on promotions for 14 Coke brands, including Dasani and Minute Maid.
Better luck later this week.
Many retailers hoping for a big finish to the holiday season instead had lighter-than-expected crowds over the long Christmas weekend, according to anecdotal reports, leaving stores to rely heavily on the next few days to pump up December sales.
Everyone at the conference was hanging on the words of Ryan Henry, and it was not difficult to figure out why.
Mr. Henry, a top Pentagon planning official, was giving an early glimpse of the Defense Department's priorities over the next four years to an industry gathering in New York of executives of Lockheed Martin, Boeing, General Dynamics and other leading military contractors.
IN the beginning, personal computers were for loners. You sat at the desk and stared at the screen. To involve anyone else in what you were doing, you had to pull up an extra chair at that same desk, or carry a printout or floppy disk containing your work to a friend's or a workmate's machine.
Working with computers became interesting, as opposed to merely useful, when it became a social activity. E-mail was the first big step, and the Internet the second. Now, with the BlackBerry and Skype and municipal WiFi and the omnipresent cellphone, it is tempting to think that technology has given us too many ways to stay in touch.
I ALWAYS wanted to be a journalist and cover sports. After an uninspiring high school athletic career I knew my best hope to make it in the sports world was through journalism. However, I was always a details kind of guy. I liked organizing and putting things together: keeping journals or planning outings or just pulling together a group to play ball after school or on weekends.
When I was a teenager, a group of my friends from East Meadow, Long Island, my hometown, and I would go into New York to see a Knicks or a Rangers game or just to spend the day. I was always the one who got the tickets, pulled together the train schedule and recommended where to eat.
THE United States is hardly alone in having a surfeit of overly chubby children. The World Health Organization estimates that a tenth of children ages 5 to 17 worldwide are overweight, and that 30 million to 45 million qualify as obese.
The situation is particularly dire in Scotland, where the popularity of deep-fried foods -- from fish to pizza -- has helped to balloon more than a third of 12-year-olds beyond their recommended weights; in the United States, the overweight rate is about 30 percent.
IMAGINE loving a hotel room so much that you buy it, mortgage and all.
That is what Tony Garcia and an investment partner will do this month when they close on the sale of Room 309 at the Hotel Telluride in Telluride, Colo. The price is $279,000, complete with maid, concierge and room service.
AHEM. Excuse me, ladies and gentlemen. Settle down, please, and take your seats.
Welcome to the annual DealBook ''closing dinner,'' celebrating the year in deal making -- the biggest one, I'm happy to say, since 2000. The merger boomlet of 2004 turned into an outright boom last year -- and, yes, thank goodness, bonuses are back. We're here to raise our glasses to the year's new masters of the universe and to roast those who didn't master much.
PITY, please, the people who write personal finance books.
More than 150 years ago, Charles Dickens wrote in ''David Copperfield'': ''Annual income twenty pounds, annual expenditure nineteen six, result happiness. Annual income twenty pounds, annual expenditure twenty pounds ought and six, result misery.''
VIACOM, the media giant, announced almost a year ago that it would split itself in two. For the chairman, Sumner M. Redstone, it was a bold step to try to create value from a company whose stock price had been treading water, as well as a frank acknowledgment that his previous strategy had failed.
But instead of rising after the announcement, Viacom's stock price initially fell -- by some 20 percent -- then recovered slightly before the spinoff, which took place last week with much fanfare.
JUST behind the 24-foot-high glass fronting the new Blanc de Chine flagship store, a spiral staircase the color of bleached bone seems to undulate as cannily as a fisherman's lure.
As well it might. For by casting its first American outpost at the corner of Fifth Avenue and East 53rd Street in Manhattan, the company, a heretofore lowflying Asian designer of luxury clothing and home accessories, is now competing with instantly recognizable names like Ferragamo, Gucci and Fendi.
THE United States needs to develop alternative sources of energy like wind power, in part to mitigate the effects of global warming, says Thierry Vandal, president and chief executive of Hydro-Québec, the electricity producer based in Montreal. Here are excerpts from a conversation:
Q. Is global warming really happening?
I GREW up in Philadelphia and, although my family was Jewish, went to Friends' Central, a Quaker school, for 12 years. The values taught there had a big impact on me. I had classes with wealthy Main Line debutantes and kids from rough Philly neighborhoods, but there were no cliques or bullies. We learned about community and service, which encouraged us to be friends with everyone.
There was a weekly meeting for worship where we had to remain silent for an entire hour. But if students were moved to speak, they could stand up and do so. We were really learning meditation. When I was young, it was impossible not to be distracted, but as I got older I appreciated the time to become centered.
MARKETING movies is about finding an audience. But what if an audience does not want to be found?
This was the problem facing Sony Pictures Classics, which is distributing Tommy Lee Jones's ''The Three Burials of Melquiades Estrada,'' a bilingual film about a Texas ranch hand (Mr. Jones) who forces a border-patrol guard (Barry Pepper), who killed an undocumented Mexican worker, to escort the body back to Mexico. Not surprisingly, one of this film's target audiences is Mexican immigrants -- both legal and illegal.
ThyssenKrupp, the German steel maker, increased its offer for the Canadian steel maker Dofasco by 8 percent over the weekend in an apparent bid to hold off any further advances from a rival bidder, Arcelor.
In an announcement on Saturday, ThyssenKrupp said it would offer 68 Canadian dollars a share for Dofasco. Earlier it had matched Arcelor's second, hostile bid of 63 Canadian dollars. The latest move values Dofasco at 5.3 billion Canadian dollars, or about $4.5 billion.
It may not be the last laugh, but on Friday afternoon, after the close of the stock market, Steven P. Jobs, the chief executive of Apple Computer, shared an e-mail chuckle with his employees at the expense of Dell, a big rival.
The message was prompted by the 12 percent surge in Apple's stock price last week, which pushed the company's market capitalization to $72.13 billion, passing Dell's value of $71.97 billion.
While the European Commission tries to promote innovation in Europe by reducing the cost of registering patents, Italy, its fourth-biggest member, has gone one step further and has abolished some patent registration fees.
But Bruno van Pottelsberghe, the chief economist at the European Patent Office, said the move, far from bolstering innovation in Italy, risks swamping the patent system in that country with registrations as well as complicating efforts to reach a Continentwide solution to Europe's patchwork of patent registration.
WHEN the European Commission introduced a sweeping plan in December to shake up product-placement advertising standards, the rationale was an echo of a playground whine: They're doing it -- why can't we?
In other words, argues Viviane Reding, the commissioner behind the proposed standards, the European Union's 25 countries and their media companies deserve a share of the growing advertising revenue that the United States is reaping by slipping Dr Pepper cans or Skintimate Shave Gel into television dramas and reality shows.
In a move that signals the growing importance of foreign markets to its overall business, Coca-Cola has created a position in charge of all of the company's operations outside of North America and filled it with an executive who revived sales in Eastern Europe in the 1990's.
The appointment places the executive, Muhtar Kent, in line as a possible successor to the chairman and chief executive, E. Neville Isdell, who is 62. Mr. Kent, 53, has spent 22 of the last 27 years working at Coca-Cola and its bottlers.
India's largest airline, Jet Airways, said on Thursday that it would buy the rival Air Sahara  for $500 million in cash in the first signs of consolidation in an increasingly competitive airline market.
Jet Airways said the deal would increase its share of the domestic market to about 50 percent. The deal was approved on Thursday by the Jet Airways board and now awaits regulatory approvals.
After aggressive Internet orders by individual investors contributed to a near-collapse of stock trading here Wednesday, executives of the Tokyo Stock Exchange announced plans on Thursday to nearly double the system's capacity for trading and clearing stocks by year's end.
Volume again approached the exchange's ceiling, and officials said they would again shorten trading hours by 30 minutes on Friday, as they did Thursday. Despite the curtailed session, the market bounced back smartly, rising 2.3 percent, and erasing much of the 2.9 percent drop on Wednesday. The percentage point gain was the biggest here in three months.
New housing starts fell sharply in December and building permits fell to their lowest level since May, the government reported yesterday, reflecting a slowing in the housing market from a peak last summer.
The Commerce Department said the number of homes that builders began constructing last month fell 8.9 percent, to an annual pace of 1.93 million. The number of permits issued dropped 4.4 percent, to a pace of 2.07 million.
Cargill, the grain marketing company, said yesterday that it would set up tax-free health savings accounts for farmers who pledge to sell a portion of their grain to the company.
The program, which company officials say is the first in the nation, is aimed at helping farmers who are struggling with rising health insurance costs while guaranteeing business for Cargill in an increasingly competitive grain market.
Joseph P. Nacchio has always talked a big game. When he ran Qwest Communications during the Internet bubble of the late 1990's, he bragged that he would topple his biggest foes, the Bell phone companies. When the telecommunications industry went into a free fall afterward, he boasted that Qwest was different and could withstand the turmoil.
Yet Mr. Nacchio begins the biggest fight of his life today because of the many things he did not say. The Justice Department, in a December indictment, claims that he did not pass on to investors warnings that his own managers were giving him about the company's overly ambitious revenue projections. Instead, prosecutors say, Mr. Nacchio kept this crucial information to himself -- while selling 2.5 million shares of Qwest stock over five months in 2001 that generated $100 million in profit.
A writer said yesterday that Richard M. Scrushy, the former chief executive of HealthSouth, paid her through a public relations firm to produce several favorable articles for an Alabama newspaper that he reviewed before publication during his fraud trial last year.
The articles appeared in The Birmingham Times, a black-owned weekly in Birmingham, Ala. Mr. Scrushy was acquitted in June in a six-month trial there on all 36 counts against him, despite testimony from former HealthSouth executives who said he presided over a huge accounting fraud. ''I sat in that courtroom for six months, and I did everything possible to advocate for his cause,'' Audrey Lewis, the author of the articles, said in a telephone interview. She said she received $10,000 from Mr. Scrushy through the Lewis Group, a public relations firm, and another $1,000 to help buy a computer. ''Scrushy promised me a lot more than what I got,'' she said.
The United States and Mexico agreed on Thursday to phase out American duties on Mexican cement imports, a move aimed at easing cement shortages caused by a building boom in Asia and rising demand for cement to rebuild after Hurricane Katrina.
The agreement would reduce duties on Mexican imports to $3 a metric ton, from $26, but limit imports to three million tons a year in the Southern states for the next three years, according to a statement from the Commerce Department. After that, all duties and quotas would be ended.
The Washington Post shut one of its blogs yesterday, saying it had drawn too many personal attacks, profanity and hate mail directed at the paper's ombudsman.
The closing was the second by a major newspaper in recent months. An experiment in allowing the public to edit editorials in The Los Angeles Times lasted just two days in June before it was shut because pornographic material was being posted on the site.
ONE virtue of finance is that there are numbers. Numbers, it is said, don't lie.
So performance statistics for 2005 might seem to be a great way to measure whether hedge funds, the $1 trillion asset class of the moment, are worth the astronomical fees that their investors must pay.
WANT to understand what's really happening in the American economy? Wade into the sea of numbers that pour out of Washington's prolific statistical agencies. They describe some disturbing changes.
You can look at the economy in two ways: by production, or by people. The two aren't always the same, because the amount of stuff that a given worker can generate in a given industry changes over time. This is clear when you look carefully at the biggest long-term trend in the economy: the decline of manufacturing.
WARREN E. BUFFETT is a one-decision investor who tries to find undervalued stocks and then keep them for a lifetime. Adhering firmly to that long-term view may be possible for him, but most professional asset managers, sooner or later, worry about the timing of their investments.
Of course, deciding when to buy and when to sell -- when to jump on the bandwagon of a fast-moving asset class and when to stand clear -- is a classic problem on Wall Street. At the moment, many strategists are struggling with questions like these: Where is the domestic stock market heading? Is there life in the commodities rally? Have small-capitalization stocks run out of steam? And what are the prospects for Japanese equities, which, notwithstanding their gyrations last week, have already been rallying for nearly three years?
I FEEL like my life has been a series of ever-expanding circles. I grew up in Barberton, a small suburb of Akron, Ohio, just an hour from Cleveland. But we never got to Cleveland. It was too far away. I had Depression-era parents, and one thing you learned growing up in Barberton was a work ethic. Where I lived was all tire factories and chemical plants.
I worked in a lot of factories growing up, including a boxboard factory and a rubber toy factory. I started working at age 14 at a local restaurant, and I've been working since.
A 9-millimeter bullet, erupting from the barrel of a handgun at 1,100 to 1,400 feet per second, can puncture skin, splinter bone and shred internal organs. A 7.62-millimeter rifle slug, flashing along at about 2,750 feet a second, dispatches targets at greater distances and with more accuracy and force than most handgun ammunition. And the human body -- essentially a large, mobile sack of water -- offers little resistance to bullets of any caliber.
Bulletproof vests, made of Kevlar and other fabrics, are meant to shield vulnerable bodies, giving a veteran cop on the beat or a young soldier on patrol in Baghdad added protection. Most vests, if properly designed, can stop a 9-millimeter handgun bullet. No vest, unless it is supplemented with heavy, brittle ceramic inserts, can stop a high-velocity rifle bullet. Over time, or with repeated exposure to gunfire, all vests degrade and lose their stopping power. Still, well-made vests offer wearers a measure of security in encounters that might otherwise prove fatal.
JOE HANSON, 22, of Chicago likes to watch television, but rarely on his TV. A folder on his computer lists an inventory of downloaded cable and network programming -- the kind of thing that makes traditional media executives shudder.
''I've got 'Ali G,' 'Arrested Development,' 'Scrubs,' 'The Sopranos,' '' Mr. Hanson told a visitor recently at his apartment on the city's Southwest Side. '' 'South Park,' 'The Office,' some 'Family Guy.' ''
Bankruptcy used to be embarrassing, but now it's just an invitation to the get-rich-quick club.
Last Wednesday, the judge overseeing the UAL Corporation's reorganization approved an executive pay package that would give rich salaries and at least $115 million worth of stock to the airline company's chief executive, Glenn F. Tilton, and other senior managers, when UAL emerges from Chapter 11.
The United States Supreme Court on Monday rejected a bid by Research in Motion, the Canadian maker of BlackBerry e-mail devices, to review its patent dispute with the holding company NTP.
The court's decision means that the case is now back in the hands of Judge James R. Spencer of Federal District Court in Richmond, Va. He is considering a request from NTP to impose an injunction banning the sale and use of most BlackBerry hand-held devices in the United States.
There would be a brief delay in the flight to Denver until an oxygen tank arrived for one of the passengers, the Ted airline agent announced at the departure gate at the Phoenix airport. John Paasonen, then a consultant to philanthropists, could hardly believe what happened next.
Another traveler began ''screaming he would miss his connection, and asking why this lady was so important,'' Mr. Paasonen, now a student at the Fuqua School of Business at Duke University, said of the incident last May. ''It was just surprising to see a customer treat another human being like that.''
Donald J. Trump, the real estate investor, said yesterday that he had filed a lawsuit against Timothy L. O'Brien, who wrote ''TrumpNation: The Art of Being the Donald,'' and the book's publisher, Warner Books, for making what Mr. Trump called ''egregiously false and malicious statements.'' Mr. O'Brien is also a reporter for The New York Times.
At issue is Mr. Trump's net worth, which Mr. O'Brien reported was $150 million to $250 million, citing three people with direct knowledge of Mr. Trump's finances. Mr. Trump contends that his net worth is at least $2.7 billion.
When Stefano Barbagallo and Claudio Marini, Midtown restaurateurs who were born in Italy, decided to open an upscale food market together, they needed a storefront. But even more important, they needed a neighborhood.
They think they have found one in the salted air and cobblestone blocks of the historic Front Street in Lower Manhattan, where an ambitious redevelopment project is nearly complete.
After repeated efforts to thwart a hostile takeover bid from Arcelor, the board of the Canadian steel maker Dofasco endorsed the company's offer of 71 Canadian dollars a share early Tuesday.
The move followed a decision by ThyssenKrupp of Germany, Dofasco's suitor of choice, not to match or better Arcelor's offer, which values Dofasco around 5.5 billion Canadian dollars ($4.78 billion).
When Viacom announced last year that it was splitting itself in two, analysts saddled the half granted to Leslie Moonves with the most invidious of labels. They deemed Mr. Moonves's publicly traded turf, the CBS Corporation -- now home to broadcast television networks and a Howard Stern-less radio division, but not the highflying cable networks of MTV -- a slow-growth company.
It has not taken long for Mr. Moonves, 56, to prove that conventional wisdom wrong, at least for the present.
MARK PERLEBERG paid $450 for a nifty new home-phone system by VTech two years ago. With it, he could set up just one base and plug several phones into remote charging units all over his house in Mission Viejo, Calif. But before he walked out of the Best Buy store, the clerk talked him into plunking down $75 for a three-year extended warranty.
''I thought, 'I bet I've wasted my money,' '' said Mr. Perleberg, a consultant with an automotive guidebook company. ''And it was a whole lot of money.''
MY roots led me into this job in every way. All the values of the Alvin Ailey American Dance Theater remind me of the values that I was brought up with. They have to do with diversity, self-discipline, giving back to the community and, ultimately, touching and changing lives.
My parents made their living by doing something that they were totally passionate about, and that has always stuck with me. They owned a children's camp in the Adirondacks. It's still in the family today.
BARBARA RICE, a former high school teacher in Pittsburgh, never gave retirement much thought -- except when she dreamed of how nice it would be not to have to wake up at 5:30 a.m. every day. Then, after 30 years at the same school, she accepted an early-retirement package and suddenly found herself able to do whatever she wanted.
That was five years ago. Today, at 57, Mrs. Rice is back at work, not as a teacher but as a bookseller on the floor of a local Borders store. ''I don't need the income,'' she said, ''I call it a hobby job.'' And she has no plans to stop working. ''The concept of sitting in a rocking chair and retiring just doesn't exist anymore,'' she said.
WHEN Yahoo Inc. announced nearly five years ago that Terry S. Semel, then a former leader of the Warner Brothers motion picture studio, would become its chairman and chief executive, the reaction both outside and within Yahoo was not exactly one of wild encouragement.
Despite a hugely successful career running companies that make movies, television shows and music, Mr. Semel was immediately labeled an ''old media'' guy. Worse, he was a Hollywood guy, and had barely touched a computer during the nearly two decades he oversaw Warner Brothers with Robert A. Daly.
Soon, Robert F. Kennedy Jr., lawyer and environmental activist, will have a new job on his résumé: fashion model. In late February, Gant, the sportswear maker, will roll out an $8.5 million campaign featuring photographs of Mr. Kennedy, 52, his wife, Mary, and four of their six children, all doing active things that Kennedys tend to do.
Gant's goal is to align the East Coast roots of the preppy brand, founded in New Haven in 1949, with Mr. Kennedy's all-American, seafaring image. His environmental organization, the Waterkeeper Alliance, received a ''six-figure donation'' from Gant, Mr. Kennedy said. And at more than 200 Gant stores worldwide, Gant is offering polo shirts, sweatshirts and caps with the Waterkeeper Alliance logo (all proceeds go to the group).
KENNETH L. LAY and his second in command, Jeffrey K. Skilling, were the public faces of Enron, painting a rosy picture of strong profits and healthy businesses. But as the facts began to tumble out, in the fall of 2001, the company swiftly collapsed, taking with it the fortunes and retirement savings of thousands of employees.
Tomorrow is the first day of the trial of Mr. Lay, who as founder and chairman is accused of seven counts of fraud and conspiracy, and Mr. Skilling, his chief executive, who faces dozens of counts, including fraud, conspiracy and insider trading.
KENNETH L. LAY and his second in command, Jeffrey K. Skilling, were the public faces of Enron, painting a rosy picture of strong profits and healthy businesses. But as the facts began to tumble out, in the fall of 2001, the company swiftly collapsed, taking with it the fortunes and retirement savings of thousands of employees.
Tomorrow is the first day of the trial of Mr. Lay, who as founder and chairman is accused of seven counts of fraud and conspiracy, and Mr. Skilling, his chief executive, who faces dozens of counts, including fraud, conspiracy and insider trading.
KENNETH L. LAY and his second in command, Jeffrey K. Skilling, were the public faces of Enron, painting a rosy picture of strong profits and healthy businesses. But as the facts began to tumble out, in the fall of 2001, the company swiftly collapsed, taking with it the fortunes and retirement savings of thousands of employees.
Tomorrow is the first day of the trial of Mr. Lay, who as founder and chairman is accused of seven counts of fraud and conspiracy, and Mr. Skilling, his chief executive, who faces dozens of counts, including fraud, conspiracy and insider trading.
KENNETH L. LAY and his second in command, Jeffrey K. Skilling, were the public faces of Enron, painting a rosy picture of strong profits and healthy businesses. But as the facts began to tumble out, in the fall of 2001, the company swiftly collapsed, taking with it the fortunes and retirement savings of thousands of employees.
Tomorrow is the first day of the trial of Mr. Lay, who as founder and chairman is accused of seven counts of fraud and conspiracy, and Mr. Skilling, his chief executive, who faces dozens of counts, including fraud, conspiracy and insider trading.
KENNETH L. LAY and his second in command, Jeffrey K. Skilling, were the public faces of Enron, painting a rosy picture of strong profits and healthy businesses. But as the facts began to tumble out, in the fall of 2001, the company swiftly collapsed, taking with it the fortunes and retirement savings of thousands of employees.
Tomorrow is the first day of the trial of Mr. Lay, who as founder and chairman is accused of seven counts of fraud and conspiracy, and Mr. Skilling, his chief executive, who faces dozens of counts, including fraud, conspiracy and insider trading.
KENNETH L. LAY and his second in command, Jeffrey K. Skilling, were the public faces of Enron, painting a rosy picture of strong profits and healthy businesses. But as the facts began to tumble out, in the fall of 2001, the company swiftly collapsed, taking with it the fortunes and retirement savings of thousands of employees.
Tomorrow is the first day of the trial of Mr. Lay, who as founder and chairman is accused of seven counts of fraud and conspiracy, and Mr. Skilling, his chief executive, who faces dozens of counts, including fraud, conspiracy and insider trading.
KENNETH L. LAY and his second in command, Jeffrey K. Skilling, were the public faces of Enron, painting a rosy picture of strong profits and healthy businesses. But as the facts began to tumble out, in the fall of 2001, the company swiftly collapsed, taking with it the fortunes and retirement savings of thousands of employees.
Tomorrow is the first day of the trial of Mr. Lay, who as founder and chairman is accused of seven counts of fraud and conspiracy, and Mr. Skilling, his chief executive, who faces dozens of counts, including fraud, conspiracy and insider trading.
KENNETH L. LAY and his second in command, Jeffrey K. Skilling, were the public faces of Enron, painting a rosy picture of strong profits and healthy businesses. But as the facts began to tumble out, in the fall of 2001, the company swiftly collapsed, taking with it the fortunes and retirement savings of thousands of employees.
Tomorrow is the first day of the trial of Mr. Lay, who as founder and chairman is accused of seven counts of fraud and conspiracy, and Mr. Skilling, his chief executive, who faces dozens of counts, including fraud, conspiracy and insider trading.
KENNETH L. LAY and his second in command, Jeffrey K. Skilling, were the public faces of Enron, painting a rosy picture of strong profits and healthy businesses. But as the facts began to tumble out, in the fall of 2001, the company swiftly collapsed, taking with it the fortunes and retirement savings of thousands of employees.
Tomorrow is the first day of the trial of Mr. Lay, who as founder and chairman is accused of seven counts of fraud and conspiracy, and Mr. Skilling, his chief executive, who faces dozens of counts, including fraud, conspiracy and insider trading.
THE hotel ''bed wars'' are over. But are business travelers the winners?
Most frequent travelers would probably say they are, citing the remarkable evolution of hotel beds from the no-nonsense affairs of the late 1990's -- just mattresses, sheets and bedspreads -- to the superpremium sleep ''experiences'' of today.
The Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation confirmed yesterday that it had hired Deutsche Bank to sell a 10 percent stake in the UAL Corporation, the parent of United Airlines, hoping to collect more than $500 million.
The federal agency is trying to take advantage of a higher-than-expected price on UAL shares ahead of the airline's anticipated exit from bankruptcy on Wednesday. The agency took over United's pension plans last year with a funding shortfall of about $10 billion.
After rejecting a partial takeover bid from Carl C. Icahn, Fairmont Hotels and Resorts endorsed a $3.9 billion cash offer Monday from Kingdom Hotels International, which is controlled by Prince Alwaleed bin Talal, a Saudi businessman and member of the Saudi royal family, and Colony Capital, an investment firm.
If the bid is successful, Fairmont's luxury hotel operation will be merged with Raffles Hotels and Resorts, another high-end brand that is owned by Colony.
Carl C. Icahn said yesterday that he had recruited Frank J. Biondi Jr., the former chief executive of Viacom and Universal Studios, to become Time Warner's chairman and chief executive if Mr. Icahn prevailed in a planned proxy fight for control of the media giant.
Mr. Icahn, the billionaire financier, has been staging a battle to replace the board of Time Warner, where his fund and various others own about 3 percent of the stock. He has told other funds that he believes Time Warner's stock could be worth about $27 a share.
National stores have gotten a lot of attention by moving into New York City neighborhoods that were once thought of in the retailing world as about as hospitable as the moon: Old Navy in Harlem, Ikea in Red Hook, Target in Flatbush.
But despite the headline-grabbing chain-store openings, the fact remains that New York City is dominated by locally owned mom-and-pop shops. This is particularly true in the outer boroughs, where small businesses play an important role in job creation, neighborhood identity and, for many immigrants, realization of the American dream.
Mellon Financial named a top Wachovia banker its chief executive yesterday, ending months of criticism from activist investors who called for a change in leadership and strategy.
Robert P. Kelly, Wachovia's chief financial officer, will become Mellon's chairman and chief executive on Feb. 13. He will succeed Martin G. McGuinn, who reshaped the company from a slow-growing regional bank to an asset management giant.
Angiotech Pharmaceuticals agreed yesterday to acquire the privately held American Medical Instruments Holdings, a maker of custom needles, for $785 million in cash, the company said.
The deal, which is expected to be formally announced today, would transform Angiotech, a pharmaceutical company that specializes in medical device implants, surgical interventions and acute injury or trauma, into a diversified medical services business. Angiotech is a partner, for example, with Boston Scientific on the Taxus stent.
United Airlines is expected to end its 38-month stay in bankruptcy proceedings on Wednesday, but the carrier may not be profitable this year because of a recent surge in fuel prices.
Many of United's 57,000 workers, meanwhile, though relieved to be ending their stay in bankruptcy, are wary of management's plans to continue to streamline the carrier. Still somewhat untested, union representatives say, are work rule changes negotiated as part of the bankruptcy and just how much more employees can be asked to do.
AFTER reading ''Don't Mess With CEO Pay,'' in the current issue of Across the Board, you might be tempted to organize a bake sale or car wash to give the big boss a raise.
Ira T. Kay, global practice director for executive compensation at Watson Wyatt Worldwide, argues that despite pay packages that can easily run into eight figures and endless headlines about directors awarding raises to C.E.O.'s even as their companies underperform the competition, everyone is missing the point.
THE free-spending days of the American consumer may be close to an end.
The embossed numbers on our credit cards have worn thin, the housing market shows signs of rolling over and the savings rate is bumping along near zero. Any extra cash in our pockets disappears through the crack in the bulletproof window at the gas station.
Bill Powell, a sports photographer in Tulsa, Okla., shoots high school and college games and sells his work to the players and their parents.
He prints on a Canon Pixma photo printer, but he does not use Canon ink. For the last eight months he has been buying refilled cartridges from Cartridge World. ''I couldn't tell the difference, and my customers couldn't tell the difference,'' Mr. Powell said. ''It saves me about 50 percent.''
More than two dozen advertisers are buying commercials tomorrow night during Super Bowl XL on ABC. The network is charging a record price, estimated at $2.5 million for each 30 seconds; some spots will run for 15, 45 or 60 seconds. Several advertisers bought time in the last few days, including American Honda Motor, for the Ridgeline truck; GoDaddy, the Web site registrar; and Starwood, for Westin hotels. Here is a look at the lineup of commercials that are planned to appear nationally during the game; the schedule is subject to changes at the last minute based on factors like the flow of the game.
STUART ELLIOTT
MY iPod died.
It happened right after Christmas -- a Christmas, I hasten to add, in which I gave my wife the new video iPod, making it the latest of the half-dozen iPods my family has bought since Apple began selling them in October 2001. We also own five Apple computers, and have become pathetically loyal because of our reliance on the iPod. To the extent that Apple is using the iPod to drive sales of other Apple products, the Nocera family is proof that the strategy works; we've probably spent more than $10,000 on Apple hardware since the iPod first came out. Alas, at least three of the iPods were replacements for ones that broke.
On Wall Street, where the size of an executive's bonus is often the ultimate measure of success, a new status symbol has emerged: the $500 million cash payout.
While the Securities and Exchange Commission is seeking greater disclosure of soaring executive compensation, top executives at hedge funds and private equity funds are collecting much larger amounts beyond the prying eyes of regulators and shareholders.
United States government officials said Friday that they had asked the owner of a hotel here, which is part of an American corporation, to expel a Cuban delegation that was meeting with American oil executives.
The delegation later left the hotel.
Who is sending threatening e-mail to a teenager? Who is saying disparaging things about a company on an Internet message board? Who is communicating online with a suspected drug dealer?
These questions, and many more like them, are asked every day of the companies that provide Internet service and run Web sites. And even though these companies promise to protect the privacy of their users, they routinely hand over the most intimate information in response to legal demands from criminal investigators and lawyers fighting civil cases.
LEADERSHIP is scary.
That is the premise of three new books that say courage may be the most important quality for managers.
THE past comes at a price for Georgia Kinney Bopp. Retired and living in Kailua, Hawaii, Ms. Bopp has spent about $800 on tests to trace her ancestry, using samples of DNA from inside her cheek and from possible relatives.
She and her husband, Thomas, even plan vacations around genealogy research, seeking DNA samples from distant cousins.
THE most-discussed Winter Olympics garb is always that of female figure skaters, as sportswriters titter over skirt length and sequin count. Far fewer words, however, are spent meditating on the skin-tight suits worn by alpine skiers. But in a sport where a few hundredths of a second can separate gold from also-ran -- and, in turn, determine whether a post-Olympics career will include endorsing pricey ski equipment or a local used-car lot -- aerodynamic clothing can make a real difference.
With that harsh reality in mind, the American, Canadian and Austrian skiers at this year's games -- which begin on Friday in Turin, Italy -- will be wearing new suits developed by Spyder Active Sports of Boulder, Colo. The suits look similar to those worn by American racers at the 2002 Winter Olympics; they are all shiny and stretchy. A microscope is required, literally, to spot some of the improvements over Spyder's previous version.
ABOUT 10 years ago, a man named J. Richard Fredericks, who focused on commercial banking during a career in the securities business, made an interesting observation. ''Banking is essential to a modern economy,'' he said. ''But banks are not.''
Recent events have made Mr. Fredericks look prescient. The most obvious development has been Wal-Mart's request for federal permission to enter the banking business. Although the company says it wants permission only to operate a quasibank -- known as an industrial loan company -- in order to save money on credit card processing, America's smaller banks worry that eventually the big retailer will eat their lunch.
IMAGINE a company that makes a practice of keeping two sets of accounts. One version is revealed to the public through periodic Securities and Exchange Commission filings and public announcements. The other is never made public and conveys a markedly different picture.
Does it sound scandalous? Actually, it's common practice.
WALL STREET has embraced real estate investment trusts as an asset family that adds diversification to portfolios, but some financial advisers still regard so-called private, or unlisted, REIT's as a kind of black sheep.
The critics say they are troubled by what they see as high up-front fees, a lack of liquidity and limited transparency in these investments, which are publicly registered but not listed on any exchange. Others, though, view them as rich income sources that provide an exposure to real estate equity without the nail-biting fluctuations of the public markets.
ONE vivid memory is my mother ironing. My father was a janitor and my mother was a maid. And she would take in laundry to iron. I remember being impressed at how she did this boring, tedious job. She would press every item with absolute attention to every single detail. How, I thought, could any human being do that repetitive task with so much attention to detail?
Over the years, I've thought that is probably where I get a lot of what motivates me, this notion that whatever you do, however lofty or lowly it is, there is something ennobling about carrying out a task well. She's really the person who influenced me the most.
HERE are a few things, courtesy of Kiplinger's, to ponder while you are waiting to pay for the flowers, or the boxer shorts with the little red hearts on them, you are buying in anticipation of Tuesday:
The total amount of money that will be spent nationwide to celebrate Valentine's Day: $13 billion. (That makes it the third-biggest retailing holiday -- trailing only Christmas and Father's Day.)
A NEW e-book tells a ''sordid story'' of business fraud, according to one reviewer. The book's author says it is ''the largest fraud case in American history.''
Enron? WorldCom? No. It's much, much larger than either of those, though the use of the word ''fraud'' in this case is more a literary device than a legal definition. The book is ''The $200 Billion Broadband Scandal'' (newnetworks.com). The author is Bruce Kushnick, a longtime irritant to the telecommunications industry.
BIG companies were in big trouble with many of their shareholders this week, whether because they were too slow in cutting some things, like their payroll or their dividends, or too quick to count other things, like their sales.
TIME'S A-WASTIN' -- Time Warner took a big step toward slimming down by agreeing to sell its book publishing unit a day before its most vocal shareholder, the corporate raider Carl C. Icahn, made public a plan by the investment bank Lazard to break the company into four pieces, sharply reduce expenses and buy back shares to raise its stock price.
Dubai appears to have won a bidding battle for control of Peninsular & Oriental Steam Navigation, the British shipping company, completing the emirate's rapid transformation from a local port operator to one of the world's giants.
PSA International of Singapore said unexpectedly on Friday that it would drop out of the fight for P.& O., as the British company is known, after considering Dubai's £3.88 billion ($6.8 billon) bid made Jan. 26.
A walk down any grocery aisle in America is a study in nutritional fads: low sodium, low sugar, low carb and low cholesterol, but none as enduring and lucrative as low fat.
Last year, 12.8 percent of all the new products churned out by food companies were emblazoned with a low-fat or fat-free label, according to ProductScan Online, everything from low-fat tortilla chips to cheese slices, peanut butter, refrigerated dip and hot dogs.
Over the next few weeks, the latest generation of big-screen televisions, digital cameras, MP3 players and other consumer electronics are heading into the stores.
In years past, that meant retailers would give last year's technology one final drastic price cut as they tried to make room for the new stuff. Consumers whose identities aren't wrapped up in having the latest and greatest gadgets could pick up some bargains.
MOST bonds these days are never touched by human hands. They are typically bought online and plunked into brokerage accounts, where they are registered and tracked digitally. Interest is automatically calculated, paid and reported to the tax authorities.
Then there are bearer bonds, the old-fashioned kind that my 92-year-old cousin Lou owns. Like silver dollars made with real silver and stock tickers that spit out prices on strips of paper, these bonds are relics of an earlier age. They are impressive-looking documents, printed on fancy, perforated colored paper.
DAVID REDDEN, a vice chairman at Sotheby's, remembers that uncomfortable moment at a charity auction when one item just wasn't getting many bids.
Donated at the last minute, it was described essentially as ''a week in somebody's house on Martha's Vineyard.'' Mr. Redden warned the crowd at Manitoga/The Russel Wright Design Center in Garrison, N.Y., that if nobody was going to snap it up, he would.
AFTER President Bush and Congress cut tax rates on dividends and long-term capital gains to a top rate of 15 percent in 2003, many investors bought stocks that make big cash payouts, expecting to benefit from lower taxes.
For many people, it has not worked out that way. That is because your actual tax rate may not be the one that the politicians talked about or that the Internal Revenue Service prints on its tax forms.
ANYONE who thinks that the federal income tax code is baffling now ought to brace for what lies ahead: big changes and uncertainty.
To many, any change may sound like welcome news. What kind of income tax system could be more incomprehensible and more riddled with special preferences than the current one?
GINNY CLARK of Manhattan got a face-lift last April. She had several reasons for seeking out the procedure. Ms. Clark, 62, said she ''wanted to look 20 years younger.'' She was socializing with a rather youthful crowd -- dating a man 10 years younger than she was, and often dining out with friends in their 30's and 40's.
What's more, as a stock trader for the investment firm Cantor Weiss, Ms. Clark was working with a lot of younger people -- a circumstance that gave her pause. Most of her peers, including a brother nine years her junior, were retiring from their Wall Street jobs. But Ms. Clark had no intention of quitting; a younger look, she believed, would extend her career.
WHEN Bill H. Adams read last fall that a bigger tax break on hybrid cars would take effect on Jan. 1, he decided that buying a Toyota Prius could wait.
Mr. Adams and his wife, Anna M. Ciambotti, had been considering the car for its gas-sipping engine and environmental élan. The tax benefit didn't hurt, either. People who bought cars last year with gasoline-and-electric hybrid engines can file for a $2,000 tax deduction on their 2005 federal returns. But while researching hybrids, Mr. Adams learned that for 2006 Congress had switched the deduction to a more lucrative tax credit.
EVER since Kohlberg Kravis Roberts & Company's hostile takeover of RJR Nabisco in 1989, leveraged-buyout shops have disavowed pursuing hostile deals and worked to remake their image as friends of management while renaming themselves ''private equity firms'' -- which sounds so much more civilized.
Henry R. Kravis, the original barbarian at the gate (to borrow the memorable phrase that Bryan Burrough and John Helyar used to describe the men behind that landmark hostile takeover), has gone to great lengths to appear as a friend of corporate America over the past decade and a half, publicly declaring that his firm won't pursue hostile deals anymore.
TALK to Wall Street analysts who cover the Internet, and one company stands out as the least forthcoming, most furtive, least transparent and most difficult to work with -- and it isn't Google.
It's Amazon.com.
FOR sci-fi movie fans, the opening titles of ''Alien,'' Ridley Scott's 1979 voyage through interstellar dread, perfectly evoke the film's ensuing themes. As a series of white rectangles gradually align to form the movie's title, the camera pans across the expanse of an enormous planet floating in the numbing, ominous, infinite void of outer space.
For visual effects aficionados, Coca-Cola's 1992 television commercial featuring Paula Abdul hoofing it with digitally inserted film clips of Groucho Marx and Gene Kelly presaged time-traveling lures of later award-winning works like the movie ''Forrest Gump,'' in which Tom Hanks was digitally transported into the Kennedy White House.
VETERAN investors have learned the hard way that for a company in crisis, even the smallest moves by its executives can mean a lot. Shrewd investors also know to question Wall Street's quick pronouncements that the company's crisis, whatever it involved, has passed.
And yet, a primal urge remains among many investors to heed all spin that is positive. People who buy stocks are optimists, after all.
IN the tiny room where I am writing this missive, there are four little display cases and a framed diploma, among many other mementos. The diploma is for my father-in-law, Dale Denman Jr. of Arkansas, and it is from the United States Military Academy, dated June 6, 1944 -- a day when quite a lot was happening of military significance in France.
Next to that is a display case with two little stars. One is a Silver Star that my father-in-law won in Europe several months after he graduated. It is for running along a road under heavy German machine-gun fire to call in artillery to save the company for which he was a forward artillery observer. Next to it is a Bronze Star that my father-in-law, then a colonel, won in Vietnam in 1966 for holding his unit together when it was ambushed by a Vietcong force and would have been cut to pieces without him.
FULL employment! The United States has rarely entered that paradise. There was a hint of it in the late 1990's, but for Americans under the age of 50, the experience has been so fleeting that they may not realize full employment was once a hotly pursued goal -- a condition considered so important that many politicians wanted it legislated and not left to chance.
President Franklin D. Roosevelt put full employment on the table in 1944, declaring that having a job was a basic human right. During World War II, the nation actually achieved full employment. And twice since then, Congress has considered bills that would have guaranteed a job at decent pay for every adult who wanted work. That doesn't mean everyone; lots of people don't want to work. But in a society that legislated full employment, the government would be the employer of last resort if the private sector came up short of good jobs for those who wanted them.
Hotel stays are getting even more expensive.
Anticipating strong demand by travelers of all kinds -- from business to leisure to groups -- hotels across the United States have begun to push rates up further this year.
FARES AT DULLES -- Many analysts predicted that the collapse of the discount carrier Independence Air last month would lead to higher airfares at Dulles International Airport near Washington. The airport had some of the highest average fares in the nation before Independence Air began operating there in 2004, forcing competitors to lower ticket prices. Over all, fares have not gone up much since Independence Air closed on Jan. 5, industry analysts say. But on flights in which passengers depart and return on the same day, once a staple of Independence Air's short-haul network, ticket prices have risen significantly, said Terry Trippler, the airfare analyst at Cheapseats.com. When Independence Air folded, he found, the round-trip fare for same-day flights between Dulles and Buffalo on United Airlines was $158. A month later, it had risen to $618. Dulles to Pittsburgh went to $900, from $78, on United and to $900, from $228, on US Airways.
BIGGER REGIONAL JETS -- The dynamic keeps shifting toward larger regional jets. US Airways said it had agreed with Embraer to change an existing order for 57 Embraer jets. The earlier order was for all 57 jets to be E-170's, which seat about 70. US Airways now says it will place 25 firm orders for the E-170's and take 32 additional options for E-190 jets, which seat about 100. The E-190's will be configured with 11 first-class and 88 coach seats. The entry of the E-190's into service has not been without problems. JetBlue Airways was the first to fly the aircraft in November, and has ordered 100 of them, but has since complained about delivery delays. Embraer has said the problems are being resolved. Both the E-170's and the E-190's are marketed as ''e-jets,'' to distinguish them from the cramped regional jets with 50 or fewer seats that many airlines use on domestic routes to feed passengers into hubs.
IT is not difficult to find a business traveler who is hopping mad at Hertz these days.
Krishna Kumar, a program manager from Santa Clara, Calif., for instance, says he was taken aback by the car rental company's decision to tighten its terms and conditions. ''When I saw them,'' he said, ''I was very upset.''
The World Trade Organization ruled yesterday that tax breaks the United States gives to some of its largest companies are illegal and the European Union said it would impose new trade sanctions in three months unless the tax breaks were abolished.
The ruling is the second in four years involving tax breaks that the United States granted to 6,000 exporters, including Boeing, Microsoft and General Electric, initially under the Foreign Sales Corporation program and subsequently under the American Jobs Creation Act.
CAN a public company express no concern for evidence that its chief executive has falsified his educational background? For two days, RadioShack concluded it could, but that changed last night.
It was then that the company issued statements by David J. Edmondson, the chief executive, admitting that ''I clearly misstated my academic record and the responsibility for these misstatements is mine alone.''
Nearly a year into his job as chief executive of Hewlett-Packard, Mark V. Hurd is overseeing a company that is doing what he said it would do: increasing its revenue and improving its profit margins.
The company, based in Palo Alto, Calif., reported yesterday that net income for the first quarter, which ended Jan. 31, rose to $1.23 billion, or 42 cents a share, from $943 million, or 32 cents a share, in the period a year earlier, a 30 percent increase.
Venture capitalists of Silicon Valley, who have backed hundreds of high-technology entrepreneurs, are eagerly financing a new group these days: schoolmasters.
''We give education entrepreneurs money to start or to speed up building their companies,'' said L. John Doerr, who over 26 years has helped start dozens of ventures, including Sun Microsystems, Amazon.com and Google. He help found the New Schools Venture Fund in San Francisco six years ago for a new breed of entrepreneur -- the kind who doesn't have to produce a profit.
EVEN among the countless bits of gimmickry taking up space on the Internet, the ads for Pherotones did look a little fake.
''Can my ring tones make you sexy?'' read one ad posted last month on the Hollywood gossip blog Egotastic.com, depicting a red-haired doctor in a white lab coat. ''Experience the ring tone secret I discovered in Denmark that's too hot for mainstream science,'' the ad promised, directing visitors to a Web site, pherotones.com. There, users could download special cellphone ring tones that, when played, were supposed to attract the opposite sex.
J. P. Morgan, in its latest push to improve an investment banking franchise, has hired a senior banker from Morgan Stanley, according to people briefed on the matter.
The hiring of Marty Dolan, a managing director who covers the insurance industry, continues the trend of large financial conglomerates poaching the traditional investment banks for deal-making talent. Mr. Dolan's departure may also be indicative of some uncertainty in Morgan Stanley's financial institutions banking unit, long a jewel of the investment bank, which has had several bankers leave in recent months.
THE hedge fund world has another convert.
Investors from Wall Street banks to Carl C. Icahn have been inspired to start hedge funds in recent years, and nowhere is that trend more prevalent than in private equity.
Hostile takeover offers are expensive, attract public criticism and historically fail more than half of the time.
So why are they suddenly on the upswing in Europe?
THOSE who watched the Westminster Kennel Club Dog Show this week saw animals trained to military precision, obeying commands at the flick of a finger.
It looks easy. But dog owners who are trying to get Fifi or Rover to stop chewing leather shoes or leaping on Grandma know that training a dog can be a time-consuming -- and expensive -- proposition.
THE decision by General Motors to halve its dividend has left many investors unconvinced of the company's ability to solve the chronic problems that threaten its position as the world's largest carmaker.
The rush by analysts to renew sell recommendations show how poorly the company is regarded. Yet a brave few dissenters see a glimmer of hope in its recovery efforts. And with the stock clinging to the low $20's after trading above $50 two years ago, they contend, that hope comes cheaply enough to warrant buying the shares.
AMERICANS were handed -- some might say had forced upon them -- control of their retirement funds 32 years ago with the creation of the Individual Retirement Account. The 401(k), invented four years later, cemented the idea that individuals must take more responsibility for their financial future.
Now Americans may be pushed to take more control of another aspect of their finances, their health care spending. They may face more choices and more direct payment of costs. They will be urged to set up Health Savings Accounts, a 401(k) for medical bills.
DURING the winter Olympics, you can count on figure skaters falling during a pivotal part in their routines, some young phenom setting a record during the downhill skiing, and lots and lots of reaction shots of parents watching their offspring go for the gold.
But it seems no one ever talks about how much those moms and dads spent to help their children reach the Olympics.
THE rise of blogging is often cast in black-and-white terms: blogs versus the ''MSM'' (the derisive term some bloggers apply to the mainstream media).
But things may shake out more along the lines of journalism versus armchair yammering. Both can be, and are, presented on Web sites that call themselves blogs. Both have been presented in the mainstream media all along.
WHILE Vice President Dick Cheney's hunting accident dominated public discourse this week, many people still found time to buy and sell everything from toasters to the generating stations needed to power them.
WIN-WIN-WOW -- Merrill Lynch transformed its underperforming asset management business into a crown jewel by shipping it to BlackRock, a firm that specializes in asset management, in exchange for 49.8 percent of the combined company.
When carmakers recall a vehicle, they provide a replacement part and cover the cost of the labor to install it. But producers of expensive medical devices have found a better way -- they often have others, like taxpayers and insurers, pick up the labor cost.
Last year, for example, when Medtronic and Guidant recalled certain heart defibrillators, both companies provided new devices free and agreed to reimburse patients up to $2,500 in out-of-pocket expenses for replacement operations. About 24,000 heart patients had such procedures; some 19,000 of them with Medtronic devices and an estimated 5,000 with Guidant units.
A large poster outside the Washington office of Fannie Mae's new chief executive lists the promises all senior managers were recently instructed to make to reshape the company's culture.
Among the mortgage giant's new house rules: Demonstrate humility. Communicate openly. Make the company a no-spin zone. Respect the views of others. Minimize internal politics. Apologize and quickly fix mistakes.
Now it's a space race.
The space tourism industry, its millionaire would-be passengers impatiently tapping on their platinum credit cards, just got a little more crowded, with the announcements of a new rocket development company and of plans to build a $265 million spaceport in the United Arab Emirates.
OUTSOURCING isn't just a one-way street on which rich countries shift jobs overseas. In recent years, some developing countries have contracted out the work of setting monetary policy to the United States. Ecuador and El Salvador, in 2000 and 2001, respectively, abandoned their own currencies, adopted the dollar and placed their monetary policy in the capable hands of Alan Greenspan, then the chairman of the Federal Reserve.
When outsourcing involves manufacturing and software programming it is often endorsed by economists and condemned by populist political leaders. So, too, is the tactic of outsourcing of monetary policy -- known as dollarization, or euro-ization. After all, noted Robert E. Litan, senior fellow at the Brookings Institute, ''currencies are symbols of national sovereignty, and countries are reluctant to give them up.''
YOU can divide investors into two camps these days. There are those who think that the stock market will return so little that it doesn't pay to take any risk for now. And there are those who think that the market will return so little that you must embrace risk if you want any meaningful gains.
Who is correct? Both sides have compelling arguments, but for the moment, the risk takers are finding it easier to persuade the investing public.
TRACY DARNEY has a commercial pilot's license, an M.B.A. and a trim figure. But she never had long thick hair. So she has paid $6,800 to get it.
On four different occasions, Ms. Darney has gone to a salon and sat for six hours for the application of human-hair extensions. Her stylist uses a tool that looks like a giant pair of tweezers and applies a protein-based adhesive to the hair near her scalp, giving her 12 inches of natural-looking hair that flows down her back. The extensions last two to six months and cost $1,700 a sitting.
BY the end of this month, all 77 Westin hotels in the United States, Canada and the Caribbean will have converted to an all smoke-free format, making Westin the first upscale hotel chain to ban indoor smoking.
Officials at Westin, a part of the Starwood Hotels and Resorts real estate investment trust, say that the move is in response to the desires of an overwhelming percentage of travelers.
IT is standing room only in Transitions, a New Age bookstore in Chicago, and John M. Perkins, the author of ''Confessions of an Economic Hit Man,'' is describing to his audience the quandary that faces Evo Morales, the recently elected president of Bolivia.
Leaning low into the microphone, Mr. Perkins affects a deep conspiratorial whisper as he sets the scene for the imagined encounter between the new president and the representative of the multinational corporate interests Mr. Morales had vilified during his campaign.
Q. You recently resigned from a comfortable job, but you'd like to return. How can you engineer that?
A. Your previous work may not make you a shoo-in for rehiring, said Danit Ran Schreiber, president of Image Democracy, a business consulting firm in White Plains. ''You need to demonstrate that you are the best fit for that position, based on your previous experience, education and personal skills,'' Ms. Schreiber said.
MICKEY MOUSE'S next big role: e-commerce renegade.
The Walt Disney Company, an icon of mainstream America, will move against the grain of conventional business strategy this spring when it stops distributing a catalog that has filled the mailboxes of tens of millions of households for the last decade, and instead embarks on a Web-only initiative.
Like many serious amateur photographers, Chad Marek has a sense of brand loyalty that rivals the attachment of many sports fans to their home teams.
But the reasons for his commitment have as much to do with practical matters as emotional pull. The 10 Konica Minolta digital and film cameras owned by Mr. Marek, a 35-year-old quality-control engineer who is also the president of a Chicago camera club, work only with lenses designed for that brand. Similarly, Mr. Marek's collection of about 33 Minolta lenses -- he's lost count -- will not fit any other make of camera.
Crowding into the Roosevelt Hotel on the evening of the Grammy telecast almost two weeks ago, the elegantly dressed executives from Sony BMG Music Entertainment had plenty to celebrate.
The soul singer John Legend, one of the company's newest stars, had snagged three trophies, including the coveted prize for best new artist; Kelly Clarkson, the former ''American Idol'' winner, scored a surprise two awards of her own.
When a video clip goes ''viral,'' spreading across the Web at lightning speed, it can help rocket its creators to stardom. Alas, the clip can also generate work for corporate lawyers.
As anyone with an Internet connection and a love of cupcakes can tell you, ''Lazy Sunday'' is a tongue-in-cheek rap video starring Chris Parnell and Andy Samberg of ''Saturday Night Live.'' NBC first broadcast the video, a two-and-a-half-minute paean to New York's Magnolia Bakery, Google Maps and C. S. Lewis, on Dec. 17.
Subject: Grand Theft Auto
Hello, I have a 9-year-old who wants to play this. What is the worst-case scenario that happens in this game ? Thank you for your help, Mak.
A YEAR ago, galvanized by studies showing that the number of minority-owned businesses was increasing rapidly nationwide but still faced basic problems like borrowing money, a coalition decided small-business owners needed help to grow and prosper.
The Ewing Marion Kauffman Foundation, a nonprofit group in Kansas City, Mo., dedicated to fostering entrepreneurship, joined with the National Urban League and other organizations -- with an endorsement from the White House -- to create the Urban Entrepreneur Partnership to give minority businesspeople advice and training needed to overcome financial and other obstacles.
OVER a lunch of tagliolini made in his Italian factory and flown to his bistro in SoHo, Giuseppe Cipriani flipped through the big brochure with its chocolate brown cover. Titled Il Giornale di Cipriani Club Residences, it advertised his new condominiums at 55 Wall Street.
The 60-page brochure -- bigger than a tabloid and far more colorful -- lays out Mr. Cipriani's plan in a series of montages symbolizing the three styles of customers he hopes to attract to his multimillion-dollar predecorated residences: classic, sleek and eclectic.
WHEN you call Chez Escargot to plead for a reservation, do they laugh and say they have no table for you? Are you down in the dumps because an old college pal said his people would get in touch with your people, and you had to admit you didn't have any people?
Does it sometimes feel as if the whole world is a V.I.P. list and your name is not on it?
IT is the corporate version of keeping up with the Joneses: every day, it seems, someone arrives at the office with a shiny new gadget that combines a cellphone with all sorts of features you used to find only on your computer. They can get e-mail messages, surf the Web, manage contact lists and calendars, and even create Word and Excel documents that can run on a conventional PC.
These smart phones and hand-held computers are so powerful that many office workers now travel without their laptops. Why bother with a clunky box that takes several minutes to start up and connect to a network, when you have a device that is always online and can access information on demand?
WHEN Lance Armstrong said in the title of his autobiography, ''It's Not About the Bike,'' he clearly hadn't had coffee with Steve Roseman.
Mr. Roseman, who dubs himself the ''chief power source'' for the electric bike industry and radiates the wattage that his title implies, feels it is  about the bike. The e-bike, that is. And for close to five years now, Mr. Roseman, 48, has been riding an uphill battle to change how Americans get to the office or the grocery store by promoting and selling e-bikes.
PATRICK FITZGERALD found himself distracted as he studied for the bar exam at Fordham University five years ago. New York City was debating the merits of continuing its recycling program and Mr. FitzGerald wondered why that was a question at all. ''I wasn't an overt tree-hugger, but I thought it was odd,'' he said.
He began poking around Web sites and news articles about the economics of recycling, and concluded that one of the industry's biggest problems was motivating its suppliers -- the people who generate garbage.
IN 1997, when Chip Tooke and other principals sold the mental health services company Value Health, he went home, seized a shovel and began digging up the front yard of his home in Virginia. Relieved to be away from his desk, Mr. Tooke, 52, spent a year landscaping his property. Then, in 1999, he started a second company, Lumenos.
''Being an entrepreneur gets in your blood,'' he said.
WHEN a new business fails, most entrepreneurs know precisely what to do: get up, dust themselves off, and get on to the next thing.
But what if a start-up succeeds?
THE old story of technology in business was a trickle-down affair. From telephones to computers, big companies came first. They could afford the latest innovations, and they reaped the benefits of greater efficiency, increased sales and expansion into distant markets. As a technology spread and costs fell, small businesses joined the parade, though from the rear.
Now that pattern is being challenged by a bottom-up revolution, one fueled by a second wave of Internet technologies like the search services from Google, Yahoo and Microsoft and software delivered as a utilitylike service over the Web.
AT 26, Phil Yuen's identity lay somewhere between Dilbert and a Microserf. His office, on the first floor of Building 16 on the Microsoft campus in Redmond, Wash., did not have a window. Not to worry. ''I could see the window from my manager's office,'' he said.
Mr. Yuen was a midlevel manager who wrote specifications for enterprise project management software -- giant computerized flow charts. ''I drew boxes and lines to help other people draw boxes and lines,'' he said.
ENTREPRENEURS tend to have big dreams when starting a small business -- success, being their own boss, earning money while doing what they enjoy -- but as every dreamer knows, a dream can take a frustrating turn into a nightmare.
For new business owners the frustration is real, not a bad dream. It comes when they find out how much time and paperwork are involved in a payroll and all the tax filings.
DON'T look now, but an important regulatory deadline is approaching that could turn your business upside down -- or, more precisely, inside out -- even if your company never intends to go public.
The only question is whether to spend the tens or even hundreds of thousands of dollars it would take to comply, or close your eyes and hope it all goes away.
WE are driving slowly under a long canopy formed by the shiny tails of Boeing 747's parked in the Sonoran Desert 20 miles west of Tucson. Beyond a vast expanse of desert and cactuses, mountain peaks rim the horizon. It's warm. More important, it's dry.
Looming around us is an amazing sight for any seasoned business traveler: row after row of silent, abandoned airliners, great jets that once soared over the earth. More than 300 are parked here. Some are going to be worked over and eventually resold to airlines around the world. Others are waiting for the banks or domestic airlines to reclaim them, and who knows when or if. Many are waiting for mechanics to strip away useable parts before wreckers tear apart the fuselages for aluminum.
MARKETERS are embracing America's mishmash of cultures as the influence of immigrants is felt in areas like cuisine, music, holidays and clothing.
''You don't see it creeping up,'' said Luke Visconti, co-founder and partner in DiversityInc Media, which measures diversity management at large companies and publishes a magazine on the subject. ''You don't see the changes unless you go back and think of it.''
MY company used to promote a knife set -- a cleaver, steak knives, a 12-inch bread knife and a chef's carving knife. They were sharp and menacing-looking, with black handles and serrated steel blades.
Before 9/11, I traveled with product samples in my carry-on luggage all the time and never thought anything of it. No one ever questioned me or my sales staff about the utensils. Flying with sharp objects was a nonissue. It didn't occur to me that the blades could also make effective weapons.
Not all gamers choose games based on how much adrenaline they muster, how elaborate the play is or how realistic the graphics are. Many looking for quick entertainment would instead prefer simplicity in their digital diversions.
There are many casual games available for those players who would rather snack than engorge on their gaming entertainment.
FOR several years, Craigslist.org has been aggressively taking classified advertising from newspapers.
Now Craigslist is the one under attack.
Dow Jones & Company, the publisher of The Wall Street Journal, announced yesterday that it would merge its print and online operations, putting them under the control of L. Gordon Crovitz, who had been president of the company's online unit.
Mr. Crovitz was named publisher of The Journal and president of Dow Jones Consumer Media Group as part of a restructuring that will include cutting 20 management jobs for a savings of about $8 million a year. As part of the overhaul, Mr. Crovitz will oversee all media that reach consumers, including The Journal, The Journal Online, Barron's, Barron's Online, MarketWatch and other Web, television, video and audio properties.
Skype, the program for making online phone calls, generally requires users to be tethered to a computer and an Internet connection. The VoSKY Call Center changes that equation, adding some interesting new options to the mix.
The Call Center, which costs $69.95 and is available at VoSKY's Web site, www.vosky.com, works with an Internet-connected Windows PC. When you attach an ordinary landline phone, you can use it to make calls to regular phones over the Internet at a reduced rate using the SkypeOut service, or make calls directly to other online Skype users, a free service.
Sharp increases in energy and food costs pushed consumer prices higher last month, but prices of other goods and services rose more modestly, the government reported yesterday.
The report appears to allay fears that the increase in energy prices from last year would speed inflation in the broader economy, but analysts said they suspected it might not be enough to dissuade Federal Reserve policy makers from raising interest rates at least once and maybe twice before stopping.
The Biovail Corporation, a Canadian pharmaceutical company, has sued SAC Capital Management, one of the most powerful hedge funds on Wall Street, accusing it of colluding with independent research providers to issue misleading reports to drive down the price of Biovail's stock.
The lawsuit, filed yesterday in New Jersey Superior Court in Newark, lays out a scheme by several hedge funds to send ''ghost written'' research reports -- all negative -- to Camelback, an independent investment research firm based in Arizona now known as Gradient Analytics. Camelback would wait for the hedge funds to accumulate a short position on the stock -- a technique that allows traders to make money if the stock price falls -- and then Camelback would release the report, the suit says. As a result of the reports of Camelback, as well as subsequent reports by David W. Maris, an analyst with Banc of America Securities, shares of Biovail stock fell more than 50 percent between 2003 and the spring of 2004, resulting in its business reputation being ''devastated'' and curtailing its ability to access capital, the lawsuit says.
For the first time in the four-week trial of two former Enron executives, the actions of the company's directors in a critical month in 2001 came under scrutiny during a cross-examination.
The scrutiny came as a defense lawyer for the founder of Enron, Kenneth L. Lay, sought to defuse testimony from a former corporate secretary, Paula H. Rieker. He pushed her to admit that directors had blessed the actions of Mr. Lay and the former chief executive, Jeffrey K. Skilling, that were related to financial structures set up by Andrew S. Fastow, the chief financial officer.
WHAT would you be doing if you were not at work? Scrubbing the bathroom or watching the Olympics? Fixing the car or playing golf? Darning socks or doing crossword puzzles?
The easiest way to measure leisure is to take survey data on how many hours a week people spend at work and subtract. Since 1965, the number of hours the average American works for pay has not changed much. By this simple measure, then, leisure has also stayed the same.
Laurence D. Fink remembers the moment as if it were yesterday. It was the spring of 1986 and he was then a nervy 33-year-old bond trader at Credit Suisse First Boston with only pretensions of being a master of the universe.
Coming back from vacation, he was hit with the news that his division had lost $100 million on a series of risky bets on the volatile mortgage market. The loss was all the more jangling in that his team had made an ''obscene'' amount of money the quarter before.
THE Internet already has HTML, WWW and MSN, and in five days, it will have H.P.L.
The initials stand for Heineken Premium Light, being introduced next week in bars by the United States arm of the Dutch brewer Heineken. Heineken Premium Light will be the second light beer sold in this country by Heineken, joining Amstel Light, introduced in the 1980's.
The European Union's trade commissioner, Peter Mandelson, has announced plans to impose tariffs this spring to slow the flow of leather shoes from China and Vietnam into Europe, but he also warned European retailers that they should absorb the higher cost of goods.
Over several months, Europe will phase in import duties of 19.4 percent on some Chinese-made footwear and duties of nearly 16.8 percent on some Vietnamese-made shoes, beginning in early April.
Raf Simons showed his first women's collection for the embattled Jil Sander fashion label in Milan on Monday, eliciting the approval of fickle fashion editors and praise from store buyers for restoring virtue to the house. Three days later, a group of investors also saw value.
Change Capital Partners, a London-based private equity firm, announced yesterday that it would buy Jil Sander from the Prada Group, after years of losses for the label and management battles that led to the resignation of its namesake designer -- twice.
A lead defense lawyer in the fraud trial of two former Enron executives tried on Thursday to portray the government's most effective witness so far as a greedy manager with a selective memory who had been carefully scripted by prosecutors.
In cross-examination, the defense lawyer, Daniel Petrocelli, elicited testimony from the witness, Paula H. Rieker, that she had made millions of dollars at Enron and refused to leave the company even when she felt she was witnessing potentially criminal activity among top managers. And she conceded that while she witnessed acts involving top managers that she viewed as wrong, she did not consider them crimes.
It was a few months before she was to graduate from Colgate University in 2002, but Lauren DiCioccio was not ready for the briefcase or the Brooks Brothers look.
Armed with a bachelor's degree in art and art history, she did what an increasing number of college graduates are doing: she bought a plane ticket to a country she had never visited, backpacked around the region, got a job in that country and then traveled some more.
ENTREPRENEURS are often thought of as people who fill a market need, creating a very pleasant living for themselves.
But the same skills can be used to plug unmet societal needs, writes Fast Company in announcing its 2006 Social Capitalist Award winners.
MAGAZINES like Maxim may be sophomoric but at least they add a dash of self-irony that makes their puerility a bit easier to swallow. Office Pirates, the Webzine introduced this week by Time Warner and run by a former editor of Maxim, is an online version of that guy in your office who makes a lot of bad jokes and doesn't let the fact that nobody is laughing slow him down.
Indeed, even though in its videos, jokes and blog entries the site officepirates.com takes on many stock office characters (the clueless boss, the busybody, the put-upon schlep), when it comes to the most offensive -- the obnoxious, overgrown frat boy -- it is either silent or vaguely approving.
Mike Jackson is saying things that some people may not want to hear.
He's calling for a significant increase in the gasoline tax. He's chiding American car companies for their sales strategies. And he's wondering when Washington will deliver a new energy policy.
FOR more than a year I've been paying $4.95 a month for access to product reviews on the Consumer Reports Web site. I'm not an appliance junkie. I just happened to sign up when my husband and I were looking for a washer-dryer, and told myself: It's only $4.95 a month; I'll cancel as soon as we figure out what to buy.
Although we put that purchase off, I was reluctant to cancel and give up all those handy product ratings. What if we needed a blender? Switching to the annual subscriber rate of $26 would have saved money, but my own inertia worked against me. Soon the monthly fee blended into all the other charges on my credit card statement, and I forgot it was there. And kept paying it.
DISRUPTIONS in the oil patch served as bookends to the debate that consumed the nation this week over ports and national security.
Fannie Mae and HealthSouth took their licks, while Wal-Mart Stores tried to get out ahead of its detractors on health care.
Would you trust someone to do your taxes who can't even do his own?
That in a nutshell, is the marketing problem that H & R Block now faces. Its shares fell $2.18, to $23.01, yesterday after it reported disappointing quarterly earnings and a slow start to this year's tax filing season.
A small group of National Security Agency officials slipped into Silicon Valley on one of the agency's periodic technology shopping expeditions this month.
On the wish list, according to several venture capitalists who met with the officials, were an array of technologies that underlie the fierce debate over the Bush administration's anti-terrorist eavesdropping program: computerized systems that reveal connections between seemingly innocuous and unrelated pieces of information.
If a number of large airlines have their way, comparison shopping -- a main force in driving down airfares -- could get much more difficult.
Many airlines currently advertise fares that initially omit some government taxes and fees, which is allowed, though the uniform nature of those charges makes shopping for fares fairly easy.
SOMETIMES I wish that the whole world celebrated a Teachers' Day. It would demonstrate our gratitude to the magnificent teachers we have had during our lives.
I think of Ms. Bratt, my third-year Latin teacher in high school, who had us all dress in togas and read Cicero's Catilinarian orations. I think of my great first-year Humanities and Contemporary Civilization teachers at Columbia, Mr. Fiering and Mr. Rothschild, and my disturbingly on-target teacher of Eastern European history, Mr. Rothstein.
RICK DOTY is a 30-year veteran of Caterpillar, the big tractor and earth-moving equipment manufacturer. He is paid $23.51 an hour as a machinist, and he receives additional benefits worth almost as much. That sets him far above newly hired workers consigned to a much lower wage scale.
To these fellow workers, Mr. Doty, who is also a local union leader, struggles to justify an inequality that he helped to negotiate.
With roots reaching back to 1919 in Shanghai, the American International Group seems a fitting global sponsor of the Asia Society's 50th anniversary season, celebrated at a dinner in New York last week. The first Western company allowed to sell life insurance on its own in China, A.I.G. faces potential competition from its former chairman and chief executive, Maurice R. Greenberg, who is exploring various investments there, including some in the insurance industry. Asked at the dinner if this concerned him, Martin J. Sullivan, A.I.G.'s president and chief executive and Mr. Greenberg's successor, said: ''I'm just focused on running our business. I remain very upbeat about Asia.''
E. Neville Isdell, chairman and chief executive of the Coca-Cola Company, another sponsor of the anniversary season, said that in Japan, his company's most innovative and profitable market, ''We're leaders in ready-to-drink tea and coffee and sports drinks, and we vend and sell hot coffee as well.'' He added: ''I think we can take those technologies we have there and bring them in here and develop them in exactly the same way. The U.S. market has developed global tastes.''
On a cavernous factory floor here, where hundreds of North Korean women diligently cut and sewed women's jackets on Monday, a South Korean businessman seemed to have found an answer to China: wages of 26 cents an hour.
''Kaesong has more advantages than Vietnam, China or Guatemala,'' Hwang Woo Seung, president of the Shinwon Ebenezer Company, said, citing other countries where his company produces clothes. ''We opened here last March and we are already starting to build another factory here twice the size of this one.''
The novelist Geraldine Brooks learned a hard lesson about child care on a book tour in New Zealand when her son was just a year old.
''The publisher was sanguine about me bringing him, so I packed the organic purees, the convertible car seat and the diapers, and set off,'' Ms. Brooks said.
CLASS CONSCIOUS -- United Airlines said that it was planning to put a new emphasis on its premium-class cabins domestically and internationally, while cutting spending on economy-class customers.
''We are judiciously taking money and investing it in the high-value customer and at the same time we are not spending any more than we have to on the low-value customer,'' Frederic F. Brace, United's chief financial officer, said last week in a speech to industry analysts sponsored by J. P. Morgan.
WE have a getaway place in Tucson, near Saguaro National Park. Usually, we've noticed, the coyotes get to yowling around 4:30 in the morning. There must be a thousand of them in the desert and the Rincon foothills, and why they set up this commotion just before dawn is a question I cannot answer. The yowling chorus lasts no more than a minute. Then, inexplicably, they stop, the desert solitude returns and we drift back to sleep.
Clang! It's a few minutes after 4 a.m., and I accidentally let the iron front gate bang shut as I lug a suitcase out to the rental car. I haven't had coffee and my mood is as dark as the moon-limned landscape.
AMONG the knocks on J. P. Morgan Chase's investment bank has been that it lacks a retail brokerage network to distribute new shares of stock for companies it helped take public.
There have long been whispers that the bank might buy such a business in a huge deal.
CBS Radio filed a lawsuit against Howard Stern yesterday, charging that he used his last months on the air there to build up his future employer, Sirius Satellite Radio, and gained financial advantages through a stock sale at the expense of CBS.
The suit was filed in New York State Supreme Court only hours after Mr. Stern pre-emptively took the offensive at a news conference, accusing CBS of trying to threaten and bully him. Mr. Stern denounced the legal action as a ''personal vendetta'' intended to ''distract the media'' from bad financial results at CBS-owned radio stations.
For 24 years, Pamela Post, a victim of a panic disorder called agoraphobia, has been afraid to leave her house. She managed to find work for a time, at a company partly owned by a man who also had a panic disorder. He gave her a private office in a house, to make her feel at home and to shield her from the office bustle that could bring on attacks.
But three and a half years into the job, even those accommodations were no longer enough. Her husband left her, and her 19-year-old daughter, who drove her to work, married and moved out.
Internet calling -- using a technology called voice- over-Internet protocol, or VoIP -- promises unlimited low-cost phone time. But for all its benefits, VoIP has drawbacks: it requires a broadband connection and often a new phone number, and 911 calls do not automatically pinpoint a caller's location in emergencies.
Enter the Chatter Bug, available for $24.95 at www.chatterbug.com. This hybrid hardware routes long-distance calls through Chatter Bug's remote VoIP system, offering unlimited calling in the United States and Canada for $9.95 a month (international calling is coming soon). Chatter Bug lets a user keep an existing phone line and number, and accommodates standard 911 services. An Internet connection is not needed to use it.
MOST people, if trapped in a burning building, would call 911. But in Taito's puzzle game Exit, those in peril instead pick up their charred phone books and look under ''escapologists'' for the number of Mr. Escape, a zoot-suited hero-for-hire. Even if you've been snowed in by an avalanche or hit by a flood, Mr. Escape will be glad to help. Just make sure to have your credit card handy.
Mr. Escape navigates through crumbling buildings, pushing crates together to form makeshift staircases, clambering up ladders and leaping chasms to save clients.
Though not all blogs may aspire to literary permanence, they can achieve it through the new Book-Smart software from Blurb, a publish-your-own-book service. The software, which is expected to be available free later this month at www.blurb.com, features a ''Slurper'' tool that automatically downloads and reformats the contents of a Web log into a book that bloggers and their admirers can purchase online.
Slurping is not all BookSmart has to offer. It simplifies the layout process by providing design templates for various kinds of books, including cookbooks, photo books, portfolios and volumes dedicated to pets and babies. The software guides users through design decisions like choosing text styles and how many photos will appear on each page.
When it comes to watching television, it seems bigger is always better.
So why settle for a pipsqueak 50-inch plasma television or one of those modestly sized 65-inch rear projection TV's when you can get something truly gigantic?
Two months after the Central American Free Trade Agreement was supposed to go into effect, only El Salvador is ready to join, frustrating a hard-won victory for Washington in its push toward free trade.
Of the five other countries that signed on to the pact known by its acronym, Cafta, four have yet to change a host of laws to bring them into line with the agreement. The pact requires them to open their economies to American trade and investment, dismantle protections for many local industries and enforce intellectual property rights in return for greater access to the United States market. Costa Rica, the fifth, has delayed ratification.
The Dana Corporation, the auto parts maker, said Wednesday that it missed two payments totaling $21 million that were due on its bonds, heightening speculation that it might be forced to seek bankruptcy protection.
Dana said it would take advantage of a 30-day grace period for making the interest payments, which were due on two categories of senior notes.
After a lengthy search, The Atlantic Monthly yesterday named a new editor -- James Bennet, a reporter for The New York Times, who will be following a long line of storied editors from James Russell Lowell and William Dean Howells to Michael Kelly.
Mr. Bennet, 39, is The Atlantic's first official editor in chief since Mr. Kelly stepped down in September 2002 to return to writing. Mr. Kelly was on assignment for the magazine in Iraq when he was killed the following year.
Senator Ron Wyden, Democrat of Oregon, will introduce new legislation today that would prohibit Internet network operators from charging companies for faster delivery of their content to consumers or favoring some content providers over others.
The bill is meant to ease growing fears that open Internet access may be blocked or compromised by the Bell phone carriers and cable operators, which may create tiers of service for delivering content to consumers, much the way the post office charges more for overnight mail delivery than for regular delivery.
With industry hopes rising for a revival in orders for nuclear power reactors, the sale last month of Westinghouse's former nuclear division to Toshiba might stand out as a landmark. But not necessarily because the industry seems ready to take off.
Toshiba surprised many in the industry by agreeing to pay a lofty $5.4 billion for a collection of nuclear power manufacturing facilities, with Westinghouse's being the centerpiece, assembled by British Nuclear Fuels.
Microsoft's battle with the European Commission escalated Thursday, as the company accused the commission of colluding with its competitors in the software market and of again withholding documents it says are crucial to its defense in an antitrust case.
With the threat of daily fines of 2 million euros ($2.4 million) hanging over it, Microsoft is facing a new suit brought just before Christmas, when the commission accused the company of failing to honor the antitrust ruling made in March 2004. In that ruling, the commission found the company guilty of monopoly abuse and ordered it to change the way it sold its software in Europe.
WHEN my husband went shopping for a memory card for our digital camera, he looked at several and was finally swayed by one offering a $20 rebate.
He carefully filled out a card with all the details needed for the rebate, sent in the packaging code and the original receipt, and after a few months forgot all about it. He has never received the money or a notice explaining why he didn't get it -- and he is less than eager to chase after such a small amount.
Pilots at Northwest Airlines agreed yesterday to a $358 million annual pay cut, averting the threat of a strike and positioning the carrier for a potentially rapid exit from bankruptcy.
All the major employee groups have now reached agreements with Northwest, though some remain to be ratified by workers.
PEOPLE may not fully accept it, but the economy is growing, both in the United States and around the world. Some central bankers say it is growing too quickly. European governments apparently think that market forces are getting out of control and are acting to slow them down.
Good times are rarely evenly shared, however, as many airline and automobile workers learned -- again -- this week.
A recent stretch of hard-won inflation could prompt the Bank of Japan to scrap its extremely loose monetary policy as early as next week, economists said. The decision could have ripple effects throughout the world's financial markets.
On Friday, the government reported a third consecutive month of price increases, offering the strongest sign yet that Japan, Asia's largest economy, has ended eight years of draining price declines and tepid stop-and-start growth.
Relenting to pressure from state government officials, Wal-Mart Stores said yesterday that it would begin carrying Plan B, an emergency contraception pill, in all of its United States pharmacies by the end of the month.
But in a move that rankled some women's groups, Wal-Mart said that it would allow pharmacists who object to filling a Plan B prescription to refer customers to another pharmacist and, in some cases, to another pharmacy.
YOU never know what's going to set someone off. Consider the case of Michael Mayo, who runs the financial services research team for the Prudential Equity Group.
Mr. Mayo, 42, is one of the few Wall Street analysts who is willing to put sell recommendations on stocks when he thinks it is warranted. Starting in the spring of 2005, he had a sell rating on J. P. Morgan Chase. But in early January, Mr. Mayo upgraded that to hold, and on Jan. 31, he went all the way to buy.
The thumbs of nearly 3.2 million BlackBerry users in the United States can continue tapping out those wireless e-mail messages without fear of interruption.
Just days before a judge was expected to issue an injunction shutting the popular e-mail service, the patent holder, NTP, dropped its infringement lawsuit against the device maker, Research in Motion, in exchange for $612.5 million.
Brendan McGahan, 26, rips off his headset and darts from his cubicle looking for a supervisor. ''I'm getting close to an escalation,'' he says over the drone of other cubicle dwellers.
Just out of the Air Force, Mr. McGahan recently landed a job that entails keeping frustrated Cingular Wireless customers from losing it. He is a trainee in the customer service center here, and he has a live one on the line: the caller complains he cannot hear well on his mobile phone and is demanding a free replacement.
By all rights, Chrysler should be celebrating its status as the most successful Detroit automaker. Instead, like a tightrope walker facing a stiff gale, Chrysler's ability to keep moving forward is being sorely tested.
Proof of that sits in a field across from Willow Run Airport west of Detroit, one of nation's busiest for air cargo traffic. Dozens of Jeeps sit in full view of passing planes and motorists, snow collecting on their hoods and roofs.
Along much of the East and West Coasts, home buyers and home sellers are engaged in a stare-down.
Many buyers, having heard that the real estate market is a bubble in danger of popping, are refusing to offer the asking price on a house, convinced that it will soon drop. But many sellers are not blinking either, thinking that offers will improve when the weather does and biding their time until then.
ABOUT four years ago, Dr. Robert Vogt-Lowell started putting money into what he now considers to be his best investment yet: medical offices for his pediatric cardiology practice.
He and his wife, Arlene, first bought a 2,200-square-foot office condominium in the Miami suburb of Kendall. Two years later, they bought a 1,500-square-foot unit nearby, in Miami Lakes. And they would like to buy space eventually in Pembroke Pines, where he also sees patients.
SUZE ORMAN often counsels her television audience -- which she treats like a large and dysfunctional family -- to pay down debt and build a diversified investment portfolio.
''Sweetheart,'' she says: hold some cash and bonds, sure, but also stash away lots of domestic and foreign stocks, and, for heaven's sake, burn those credit cards.
TIM HENDRIKS drives a sturdy S.U.V. when he is home on Zanzibar Island, where he owns a hotel. But when he is in London on business or visiting friends and family, he leaves practicality behind and slides behind the wheel of one of the luxurious fast cars of his dreams -- a Ferrari, say, or an Aston Martin or a Porsche.
Sometimes he tries a Bentley when he arrives at the airport. ''That's rather a nice experience,'' he said, ''quite different from jumping into a London cab.''
STOCKS, bonds and sex are the three main topics covered in the newest business books. So, of course, we will begin our discussion with bonds.
At some point -- perhaps soon -- the Federal Reserve will stop raising interest rates, a decision that is bound to add to the allure of bonds, because bond prices rise as rates fall.
WHEN the package showed up last November at his house outside of Portland, Ore., David Hodgson initially felt a wave of great excitement. But that promptly gave way to foreboding.
As soon as he opened the bundle, he realized that a clock had started ticking on a new assignment: he had four months to write a manual on how to extort, kill and otherwise take over a New York mob family. The task was particularly harrowing, in part because he wanted to make sure that his prose was well organized and clear.
WINTER is the off-season at Graceland, Elvis Presley's home from 1957 until his death there, at 42, in 1977. On a recent weekday, only a few visitors wandered through the home and its 13.8-acre grounds, wearing headphones and listening to a recorded tour guide. In the colonnaded ''Meditation Garden,'' a middle-aged man in an Elvis T-shirt perched on a bench next to Elvis's grave.
Not much has changed at Graceland, a reverentially preserved 21-room Colonial Revival-style mansion, since Elvis's former wife, Priscilla Presley, opened it to the public 24 years ago. Video projectors beam low-tech videos of a sweaty, singing, hip-swiveling Elvis onto walls. In a racquetball court behind the house, dozens of his gold records, along with various sequined jumpsuits and trophies, are on display. And, of course, there is the Jungle Room -- the wood-paneled den famously decorated in skins and skulls and green shag carpeting.
CROWDED FLIGHTS -- Planes are more crowded than ever on domestic routes, even as fares continue inching up, and the monthly traffic data explain why. American Airlines said its domestic capacity, or the number of seats available, dropped 3.5 percent, while domestic revenue passenger miles -- defined as one paying passenger flown one mile -- rose 2.2 percent. Delta Air Lines, which is operating in bankruptcy protection, reported a 17.6 percent drop in domestic capacity against a 12 percent drop in revenue passenger miles. (On the other hand, Delta reported a 22.4 percent jump in capacity on Latin American routes, reflecting its push into more lucrative markets.) Northwest Airlines, also operating in bankruptcy, reported a 7.6 percent drop in domestic seats against a 6.5 percent decline in revenue miles flown. Continental Airlines reported 4.9 percent more domestic seats but a rise of 11.3 percent in revenue miles flown. United Airlines, newly emerged from bankruptcy, had 3.5 percent more domestic seats available in February, against a 6.7 percent rise in revenue miles flown. Southwest Airlines' capacity increased 8.5 percent, but its passenger revenue miles jumped 17.3 percent.
MANHATTAN HOTEL BOOM -- In another indication of booming times for hotels in the Big Apple, the London-based luxury hotel company Millennium & Copthorne reported a virtual sellout -- 87 percent average daily occupancy -- at its three Manhattan hotels in the fourth quarter of 2005, compared with 60.1 percent at the rest of its United States hotels and 72.3 percent worldwide in that period. The average room rate for the three New York hotels -- the Millennium Broadway, the Millennium Hilton and the Millennium United Nations Plaza -- was $275.12. The Millennium Hilton is owned by Millennium & Copthorne, but operated by Hilton Hotels.
When 17 employees from the accounting firm KPMG were indicted last fall on charges of creating and marketing questionable tax shelters, they suddenly faced a future of hefty legal bills.
But at least one indicted partner has found a financial white knight, prosecutors believe.
When AT&T says it must acquire BellSouth to compete against a new generation of telephone providers, what it is worried about is losing more people like Mike Habib.
Two years ago Mr. Habib, 41, a project manager for a pharmaceutical company in San Diego, switched his landline phone service from SBC (now AT&T) to Internet-based phone service from Cox Communications, the local cable company.
DaimlerChrysler has dismissed or suspended several employees after an internal investigation uncovered evidence that its executives paid bribes in Asia, Africa and Eastern Europe.
In a report filed Monday with the Securities and Exchange Commission, the company said it had ''determined that improper payments were made in a number of jurisdictions.'' The payments, it said, could violate both German law and the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act in the United States.
As General Motors sells most of its 21 percent stake in the Japanese carmaker Suzuki Motor, providing a cash infusion after huge losses, analysts are wondering if the move will be enough to appease G.M.'s disgruntled shareholders. The sale has also raised speculation about what G.M. plans to do with its 7.9 percent stake in Isuzu Motors.
G.M. will sell about 92 million shares, or a 17.4 percent stake, back to Suzuki for 230 billion yen ($1.98 billion) on Tuesday, the companies said. Analysts said Suzuki might have to spread itself dangerously thin to come up with the cash on short notice to buy its shares back from G.M.
The Intel Corporation went on the offensive on Tuesday, showing off a new design for powerful, energy-efficient processors that it hopes will help it gain back the market share it has lost to its rival, Advanced Micro Devices.
Intel, the world's largest semiconductor manufacturer, demonstrated its latest chip technology just days after it disclosed it would miss its first-quarter financial targets because of a slowdown in demand and a slight loss in market share.
Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer is expected to announce on Wednesday several new agreements to distribute movies made by other producers, according to several people apprised of the announcement.
Under the agreements, they said, MGM will distribute movies made by the Weinstein Company, founded by Bob and Harvey Weinstein; Bauer Martinez Entertainment, a producer of little-known fare like ''Modigliani''; and Lakeshore Entertainment, which recently had hits with ''Underworld: Evolution'' and ''The Exorcism of Emily Rose.''
Now that Reader's Digest has sold its prestigious headquarters in this suburban Westchester hamlet and consolidated its operations into only one-third of its former space, the new owners are subdividing the remaining sections of the landmark building into office space for new tenants.
The primary target tenants are corporations in search of alternatives to Midtown Manhattan's increasingly crowded and expensive office market.
As the Bush administration re-examines a proposal to allow a Dubai company to take over operations at some American ports, executives from unrelated businesses have quietly begun lobbying in Dubai's favor, fearing that recent fierce criticism could damage trade with the United Arab Emirates.
Some corporate groups are also planning public moves to smooth relations between the United States and Dubai. The American Business Group of another emirate, Abu Dhabi, is set to announce today that it will send seven delegates to Washington at the end of the month to speak to lawmakers. The group has several hundred corporate members, including Lockheed Martin, Federal Express, the Hilton Group and Exxon Mobil.
VNU, the Dutch publishing and market research company that owns ACNielsen, was near a deal late last night to be sold to a consortium of private equity investors for about $9 billion in cash, according to people involved in the discussions.
The company is hoping to announce the transaction this morning when it is also planning to report its earnings, these people said.
Calling 411 for directory assistance can be maddeningly expensive. Carriers like Sprint and Verizon charge more than $1 and sometimes as much as $2 a call from a cellphone..
And much of that is profit. Directory assistance ''truly is a cash cow,'' said Saroja Girishankar, a vice president at the Pelorus Group, a telecommunications market research firm based in Raritan, N.J. She and other industry analysts said that the carriers paid wholesalers -- who actually provide the 411 service -- from 25 to 50 cents a call.
While preparing for the arrival of their first baby five years ago, Michael and Ellen Diamant came to a realization that hits many design-conscious parents: diaper bags, bottle warmers and nipple racks don't fit into their decorating scheme.
Clunky industrial shapes that have not changed in decades, bland white plastics and teddy bear motifs simply clash with granite countertops and a stainless steel coffee machine, Mr. Diamant said.
When Lenovo, the upstart laptop maker, bought I.B.M.'s ThinkPad division last year, it promised to overhaul Big Blue's staid and expensive line of business computers. Its ThinkPad C100 is a first attempt to deliver on that promise.
The C100, available now in retail stores and at www.lenovo.com, is a low-cost laptop with a built-in optical drive and a 15.4-inch screen. Designed as the workhorse of the new 3000 series, this laptop starts at $599 for a model with an Intel Celeron M processor.
With AT&T proposing to buy BellSouth, Wall Street is looking to Verizon, the second-biggest Bell company, to make the next move.
Verizon has already said it wants to buy out Vodafone, which owns 45 percent of Verizon Wireless. But while taking full control of the wireless division would allow Verizon to include all the profits from its mobile phone division on its income statements, some investors say that Verizon would be smarter to sit tight, at least for now.
MARKETING to students on spring break used to be simple: a company would set up a stand on the beach, hand out product samples and let the message spread itself.
But now, spring break has become a stage for increasingly expensive and sophisticated advertising campaigns. Throughout March, companies like Unilever and Gillette are saturating Daytona Beach and Panama City Beach in Florida and South Padre Island in Texas with sponsored events, beachfront oxygen bars and ads on everything from pillowcases to shower curtains.
The New York attorney general, Eliot Spitzer, accused the radio giant Entercom Communications yesterday of soliciting money and gifts from record companies in exchange for playing songs on the air.
The lawsuit is the first time that Mr. Spitzer has focused his continuing payola investigation on a broadcaster. The suit accuses senior executives at Entercom, the nation's fifth-biggest radio chain, of directing efforts to extract improper payments from record companies and independent promoters, who are middlemen hired to pitch songs.
Leslie Rahl has been running a hedge fund advisory firm for a dozen years, after a long career running the derivatives desk at Citibank.
A typical day might be spent meeting with clients from Japan and Norway, but one recent afternoon she was accompanying Dasharah Green, a fifth grader from the Bedford-Stuyvesant neighborhood of Brooklyn.
For European restaurants that serve mainly chicken, the last few weeks have been a nail-biting time.
''Our chickens are well cooked, there's no danger at all,'' said Antoine Mendy, a manager in his 20's at a KFC restaurant on the broad Place de la Republique. Yet Mr. Mendy conceded that since Christmas, ''we did have a dip in sales, though they're back; I think they're coming back.''
WEDNESDAY'S announcement came as little surprise to tobacco companies and their opponents: cigarette sales had fallen once again, hitting a 55-year low.
Tobacco companies have been on the defensive since reaching a landmark $246 billion settlement with the states in 1998, and cigarette sales in the United States have declined more than 20 percent since then. In addition, many states and city governments have passed laws banning smoking in workplaces, restaurants and bars.
ONE recent week, the video blog Rocketboom drew an average of 200,000 people a day to watch its short daily news reports on technology, the arts and other topics.
''The Abrams Report'' on MSNBC, meanwhile, drew 215,000 viewers to its weekday hourlong show about legal issues.
A WINTER wind sliced through the sidewalks of TriBeCa like a giant razor blade, chafing my cheeks and piercing all the way to my spine. I hiked up the collar of my overcoat, walking faster. My wife and son had just taken a flight to a Central American resort. Left alone to labor in gloom, I was hoping to take the edge off the cold, dark night even as the words of my existential philosopher hero, Albert Camus, rattled my brain.
''There comes a moment when the creation ceases to be taken tragically; it is merely taken seriously,'' Camus observed in ''The Myth of Sisyphus.'' ''Then man is concerned with hope. But that is not his business. His business is to turn away from subterfuge.''
MULTIBILLION-DOLLAR mergers of companies with household names are not often swept aside by other news just days after they are announced, but by yesterday it was almost easy to forget that the week began with AT&T's bid for BellSouth.
The week ended with a political showdown over -- of all things -- a company that runs container ports. In between was a showdown of another sort, among the former executives of Enron, who faced off in a federal courtroom in Houston.
Joseph A. Brocato's weekly self-injections of a drug to treat hepatitis C left him so feverish and fatigued, he said, he often thought of quitting. He didn't, thanks to a nurse who urged him by phone to stay the course.
The nurse, Colleen Dinsdale, did not work for Mr. Brocato's doctor. Rather, Ms. Dinsdale was paid by the drug's maker, Roche, and its distributor, McKesson. Each month that Mr. Brocato took the drug, Pegasys, and its companion pill, ribavirin, meant $3,000 in sales -- most of it paid by his insurance company. His share was a $50 co-payment.
IN ''The Merchant of Venice,'' the prince of Arragon chooses the silver casket and finds inside only ''the portrait of a blinking idiot.''
Call me what you will -- silver is still my favorite metal. Gold is too yellow and definitely too tacky for knives and forks and water pitchers. Platinum is all right for jewelry, but the things made with it are often a trifle delicate. Very old pewter has a certain charm, and so does nickel -- especially in faucets -- but when it comes down to it, there is nothing like antique silver.
REACHING into their nylon lunch bags at school, Casey and Cameron Lilley pull sandwiches made of organic ingredients out of wax paper wrappers, and sip water from coated aluminum containers from Switzerland. Their mother, Shawn Lilley, had carefully chosen the packaging.
At a recent gathering of kindergarten mothers in Seattle, Ms. Lilley told the women that chemicals could leach from plastic bags and other plastic containers into food. Since then, a few more kindergartners have shown up with sandwiches in wax paper.
WIKIPEDIA, the free online encyclopedia, currently serves up the following: Five billion pages a month. More than 120 languages. In excess of one million English-language articles. And a single nagging epistemological question: Can an article be judged as credible without knowing its author?
Wikipedia says yes, but I am unconvinced.
ANDY STEWARD, a successful London computer consultant and sailboat racer, became exasperated when trying to watch his favorite sport on television. There were a few half-hour recaps of some major sailing races, but they were always shown late at night.
Mr. Steward looked into creating a sailing channel on the Sky satellite service in Britain, but his idea was soon dead in the water. He would have had to pay £85,000 (nearly $150,000) to start the channel and £40,000 a month (nearly $70,000), as well as the production costs. That was a lot of money for an untested concept.
ONE of the funniest movies I have ever seen is ''Monty Python's The Meaning of Life.'' In one scene, a conglomerate's senior executives are meeting and one of them is invited to report on the sixth item on the agenda: the meaning of life.
The eager executive responds: ''Yeah, I've had a team working on this over the past few weeks, and what we've come up with can be reduced to two fundamental concepts. One: People aren't wearing enough hats. Two: Matter is energy. In the universe there are many energy fields which we cannot normally perceive. Some energies have a spiritual source which act upon a person's soul. However, this 'soul' does not exist ab initio as orthodox Christianity teaches; it has to be brought into existence by a process of guided self-observation. However, this is rarely achieved owing to man's unique ability to be distracted from spiritual matters by everyday trivia.''
BEFORE every flight, pilots reset the altimeter of their aircraft to match the elevation of the local airport. If they didn't, the altimeter reading would gradually diverge from the true measure, endangering the safety of all aboard.
It's no different for economic statistics. When they are not updated, the subjects they once measured can become obscured.
I GREW up in Port Elizabeth, South Africa. My parents, who left Germany in 1936 to escape the Nazi regime, owned a retail store. Working there as a kid gave me an early feel for business. At 10 or 11, I joined a youth movement similar to the Boy and Girl Scouts.
I learned people skills from this group. As a teenager, I became a group leader and organized a three-day summer camp for 30 or 40 kids.
In the winter of 2000, the greatest boom in initial public offerings was cresting. Companies with no revenues, let alone earnings, were being sold to the public at high prices, then doubling or tripling on the first day.
At the center of it all was Credit Suisse First Boston, where Frank Quattrone, the powerful investment banker, was underwriting hot stock after hot stock.
I ALWAYS pack a supply of playthings like hand puppets and puzzles when I'm on the road. They've saved the day for me more than a few times. You never know when you're going to get stuck on a flight next to an inconsolable toddler or a teething baby whose ears start hurting when the plane is pressurized.
To these young passengers, I reflexively offer my toys.
Before every business trip, Sandra Fink stocks up on echinacea. Adrienne O'Sullivan takes prescription pills to strengthen her immune system, while Joel Kangisser is so worried about the risk of a blood clot in his legs that he takes frequent walks down the plane aisle on trans-Atlantic flights.
Few people are more preoccupied with their health than business travelers. They were a cautious lot even before bird flu began to spread, before talk of a possible influenza pandemic.
Ending five years of wrangling, Exxon Mobil appeared yesterday to have reached agreement with Indonesia's state-owned oil company, Pertamina, clearing the last hurdle to developing one of the country's most promising oil deposits.
Exxon Mobil and Pertamina announced in Jakarta that they had concluded a joint-operating agreement that would allow the two companies to begin drilling for oil near the town of Cepu in eastern Java. The agreement, to be signed officially on Wednesday, calls for the establishment of a joint venture that will place executives from Exxon Mobil in charge of day-to-day operations, while Pertamina will head a joint oversight committee.
The European Commission may take legal action against six of its member countries for restricting gambling operations like sports and online betting while permitting citizens to participate in national lotteries.
Europe's internal market commissioner, Charlie McCreevy, wants to take action against Germany, Finland, Sweden, Italy, Holland and Hungary for either restricting the advertising and promotion of gambling services or banning the services themselves.
CenterPoint Properties Trust, a leading developer of industrial property, has burnished its image over the last few years by transforming a former weapons factory in the Chicago suburb of Elwood into a successful intermodal railroad and warehouse complex.
CenterPoint had been a publicly traded real estate investment trust since 1993, but its solid reputation was not reflected in its share price. Analysts fretted when the company tried to spread its wings beyond its home base of Chicago. The sudden dismissal last year of a top executive also dragged down the stock.
When a company goes the route of PIPE's, you can bet that it is in trouble, unable to raise funds through conventional routes. But such companies can often raise millions of dollars, thereby postponing disaster.
PIPE stands for private investment in public equity, and providing such financing can be very profitable, even if the companies later go bankrupt.
A segmented tower on a metal and plastic base swiveled around. Two glowing segments, suggesting a head, tilted forward and spoke: ''Hello. My name is Scoty. Let me explain a few things about myself.''
In a vaguely female synthesized voice -- but always in plain English -- Scoty, the latest robot from the robotic-toy maker WowWee, demonstrated its functions for a visitor recently.
The lengthy mating dance among European stock exchanges may be entering its final whirl, as a potential American takeover of the London Stock Exchange has driven two rival exchange operators, Euronext and Deutsche Börse, into serious merger talks.
On Wednesday, Deutsche Börse welcomed Euronext's expression of interest in striking a deal that would create a pan-European company with a dominant franchise in derivatives trading.
Leaders of the United Automobile Workers union, who met Wednesday in Detroit, said they doubted that a deal could be reached on an assistance plan for the Delphi Corporation before a deadline on March 31.
Without an agreement by the union and General Motors, Delphi, an auto parts supplier that is under bankruptcy protection, says it will ask a judge for permission to set aside its labor contracts and impose sharply lower wages. The U.A.W. has threatened to strike if that happens.
The Russian state oil company Rosneft has acquired $482 million in debt that the troubled oil company Yukos owed to Western banks, Yukos said Wednesday. The step raised the possibility that Rosneft might acquire Yukos's remaining assets.
In a statement on its Web site, Yukos said it appeared that Rosneft acquired the debt in December.
The Federal Communications Commission leveled a record $3.6 million fine yesterday against 111 television stations that broadcast an episode of ''Without a Trace'' in December 2004, with the agency saying the CBS show suggested that its teenage characters were participating in a sexual orgy.
The program was among nine cited yesterday for fines totaling about $4 million on agency accusations of violating decency standards between February 2002 and March 2005. The fines are the first indecency actions by the commission since Kevin J. Martin, a Republican, became chairman last March.
China, which for more than a century turned its back on Central Asia, has reached out to Kazakhstan, Central Asia's biggest country, for one major reason: oil.
In 2005, the China National Petroleum Corporation bought Petrokazakhstan, a Canadian-run company that was the former Soviet Union's largest independent oil company, for $4.18 billion and spent another $700 million on a pipeline that will take the oil to the Chinese border.
AFTER decades of standing pat on its agency lineup, the troubled automaker General Motors is finally taking steps to shake things up.
General Motors is famous on Madison Avenue for being loyal to the agencies on its roster. Campbell-Ewald, for example, has created campaigns for the Chevrolet brand since 1914. ''The wheel wasn't invented then,'' one agency executive who works for G.M. said facetiously.
Michael A. Carpenter, a longtime Citigroup executive who at one time was thought to be a contender for the bank's top job, is leaving the company in the latest departure among senior management.
Mr. Carpenter, 58, the head of the alternative investments group, will leave by May 1 and is expected to start an ''entrepreneurial venture'' like a private equity or hedge fund, according to a memo yesterday from Charles O. Prince III, Citigroup's chief executive.
TRUE, $1 million isn't what it used to be. There are now more millionaires nationwide than people who are unemployed.
Still, no one is going to object to having $1 million lying about, and Smart Money says in its current issue that a seven-figure nest egg is surprisingly easy to obtain.
SOON after the dot-com bubble burst, it became fashionable to say there had been only a few voices in the wilderness warning of the doom that lay ahead, as most of the country stampeded to certain financial ruin. In reality, warnings were issued all the time; they just went unheeded.
Still, more people (or at least, more dollars) were wrong than were right, so it's no crime for those who were right to feel a little superior. The site iTulip.com, which was restarted this week after a three-year hiatus, does not hesitate to claim credit for accurately predicting that the bubble would pop. It even got the timing right.
THE balance-of-payments deficit in the United States set another record in the fourth quarter, as it rose to 7 percent of the gross domestic product.
That means, as Greg Jensen of Bridgewater Associates put it, ''that the U.S. consumes 7 percent more than it produces.'' Mr. Jensen said the pressure from that made it much more likely that the Federal Reserve would keep raising interest rates.
The clock is running out on Johnson & Johnson's efforts to stop the federal government from barring Medicare coverage of its implantable spinal disk, Charité.
Yesterday was the end of the 30-day comment period on the proposal to designate the device as not ''reasonable and necessary'' therapy for Medicare patients suffering from severe lower back pain. The stage is now set for a final ruling in mid-May.
In its fourth-quarter earnings report, Procter & Gamble had one particularly dark cloud in a generally bright update: Hurricane Katrina was making a mess of its coffee business, which got 50 percent of its supply from four sites in New Orleans.
Though the plants were among the first back in operation after the hurricane struck on Aug. 29, there are still, as Doug McGraw, the executive in charge of global coffee, put it, ''holes on the shelves'' where Folgers and Millstone, Procter's brands, should be. Mr. McGraw spoke recently about the impact of the hurricane and how the business is doing now. The following are excerpts:
Russia has been holding up an entry visa to William F. Browder, who controls a $4 billion hedge fund in Moscow and is the largest foreign investor in the country's stock market.
Mr. Browder has been living in London for the last four months waiting for a visa.
MARCH madness is not limited to college basketball. Billions of dollars in mergers were announced this week, building on the momentum created when AT&T offered to acquire BellSouth for $67 billion earlier in the month.
The trend even swept up entire stock exchanges, as the Nasdaq Stock Market offered to buy the London Stock Exchange (just as the New York Stock Exchange was weighing a bid of its own), and Euronext, the owner of the Paris, Amsterdam, Brussels and Lisbon stock markets, said it was interested in buying Deutsche Börse, the German exchange.
As expected, a federal judge ruled on Friday that Google, the Internet search engine, must turn over some search data including 50,000 Web addresses to the government for a study of child pornography online.
But the judge, James Ware of the Federal District Court for Northern California, denied a government request that Google be ordered to hand over keywords that customers use to search its database.
WILLIAM R. HAMBRECHT took a seat next to me at a conference table in the hip San Francisco offices of his eight-year-old investment bank, W. R. Hambrecht & Company. He put his laptop between us, and opened a file that contained the details of an initial public offering for Traffic.com, which it had taken public five weeks earlier. ''I've gotten to the point where I don't even try to explain the auction method without my laptop,'' he said. ''The most powerful evidence that it works is the results themselves.''
Ah, yes, the auction method. You remember the auction method for initial public offerings, don't you? It had its big moment in the sun in August 2004, when Google used it -- or, rather, a modified version of it -- in its eagerly anticipated I.P.O.
For Janna Jensen, it was the dirty looks and nasty gestures from other drivers that finally persuaded her to give up the family's $55,000 Hummer H2. Her husband, Michael, meanwhile, was tired of the $300 monthly gasoline cost and the quality problems that began soon after they bought it.
So the Jensens of Reno, Nev., dumped the sport utility vehicle this year for a more modest Honda Element, still an S.U.V. but one with better gasoline mileage and a lower profile than the H2. And they are not alone.
Two States Propose Laws to Stop Wal-Mart Banks  Lawmakers in Michigan and Maryland have introduced bills to restrict Wal-Mart Stores' ability to operate banks in their states. Representative John Gleason in Michigan, a Democrat, proposed a bill yesterday that would bar industrial banks like the one Wal-Mart is seeking to start. Brian Moe, a Democrat the lower house in Maryland, introduced legislation yesterday that would ban Wal-Mart bank branches from its stores. Industrial banks can accept deposits and lend money, raising the possibility that Wal-Mart could open branches in its more than 3,300 United States stores. Wal-Mart has said its bank, to be based in Salt Lake City, would be used for credit card processing to cut fees the chain pays and that it had no plans to open retail banking operations. ''We have no intention of doing what they seem to be trying to prevent,'' a Wal-Mart spokesman, Marty Heires, said. (BLOOMBERG NEWS)
More Internal Accounting Problems at HealthSouth  The HealthSouth Corporation said yesterday that it still had problems with internal financial controls after a huge accounting fraud and would post losses for 2005 that were at least $260 million greater than the previous year. The company, which operates a rehabilitation and medical services chain, made the announcement in documents filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission and said its annual report for last year would be delayed until March 31. HealthSouth, which is based in Birmingham, said a report from its accounting firm will contain an ''adverse opinion'' of the company's financial controls, which were revamped after a $2.7 billion accounting fraud that nearly drove the company to bankruptcy after it was revealed in 2003. (AP)
ONCE a month, the Bureau of Labor Statistics, along with the news media and a host of economists, enters into a much-trumpeted ritual that is, at best, one-dimensional -- and tends to distort what's really happening in the economy.
The occasion is the employment report, in which the bureau announces how many thousands of jobs were added to the work force in the previous month -- or, in hard times, how many thousands disappeared. Lately, the work force has been growing by nearly 200,000 jobs a month, on average.
LONG before Enron, a young Chicago financier began building and buying utility companies. He promoted electricity to housewives, peddled his stock to their husbands and amassed (thanks to his cunning grasp of finance) an energy empire spanning most of the country.
It is long past time for wondering how such a fable might have ended. Has this country ever produced a financial magician who did not end his days fighting prosecution and public disgrace?
HUNDREDS of feet above Manhattan, the reception area of Proskauer Rose's headquarters boasts all of the muscular, streamlined ornamentation that symbolizes authority and power in a big city law firm -- modern art, contemporary furniture, white marble floors, high ceilings and stunning views. The background music floating about this particular stage set is composed of the steady, reassuring cadences of talented, ambitious lawyers greeting their clients.
Bettina B. Plevan, a 60-year-old specialist in labor and employment law, has spent more than three decades at Proskauer navigating the professional riptides and intellectual cross-currents of firm life on her way to reeling in one of the legal world's most storied and most lucrative prizes: a partnership. Her corner office has evidence of the hard work that has gotten her here: stacks of legal documents sprout like small chimneys on her desk and floor, amid rows of black binders and brown accordion folders.
I GREW up in Steyr, a medieval Austrian town that now has a population of about 40,000. It has a beautiful marketplace, and it's at the junction of two rivers that flow in from the mountains.
We had an engineering college in Steyr, and as a boy I was already interested in dismantling things. I took my mother's watch apart, and I took a little motorbike of my grandmother's apart when I was 14, so I was trying to understand how these systems work.
FOR decades, advertisers spent billions to determine consumers' awareness of brands and their recall of television commercials. Now, with awareness of most brands a given and advertising money moving to new media, Madison Avenue is turning its focus to something called engagement.
What is this non-nuptial form of engagement? Dawn E. Hudson, president and chief executive of Pepsi-Cola North America, offered an example. In six weeks, Pepsi plans to begin an advertising and promotional campaign that will offer consumers customized ring tones for cellphones, which can be downloaded from the Internet with codes found under soft drink bottle caps.
BECAUSE I fly mostly out of Newark, a big Continental hub where the carrier has kept its fares competitive with low-cost airlines, I assiduously racked up the minimum number of miles for several years to maintain the top frequent-flier status level, Platinum Elite.
Alas, in 2005, I didn't fly the minimum number of miles (75,000) for top status this year. So, Continental busted me down to the middle-status tier, Gold Elite (which requires an annual minimum of 50,000 miles).
A business trip is a great excuse to eat. Just ask George Pattee, the chief executive of the Parksite Group, a marketing company for specialty building products in Batavia, Ill.
''The temptation to eat fast food is constant,'' he said. ''The real challenge has always been the evening meal. Going out with clients and ordering a steak, that's part of the routine.''
The acquisition and subsequent redevelopment of a former Pfizer pharmaceutical research facility here by Forest City, the Cleveland-based developer, promises to quadruple the amount of speculative office space available for biotechnology companies in the Chicago area.
Forest City bought the one-million-square-foot complex last spring for $43 million. Since then, the company has demolished 9 of the 13 buildings on the 23-acre campus, leaving about 700,000 square feet of offices and laboratories. The company plans to build an additional 1.3 million square feet of new space, also for offices and labs, over the next 10 years. Over all, the project is expected to cost more than $500 million.
Prices at the wholesale level dropped unexpectedly in February, the Labor Department reported yesterday, but excluding the volatile food and energy sectors, the cost of goods increased, highlighting the potential for higher inflation later in the year.
Retreating food and energy prices drove down the Producer Price Index by 1.4 percent, the biggest monthly drop in almost three years, after increases of 0.3 percent in January and 0.6 percent in December. Energy prices fell 4.7 percent and food prices were down 2.7 percent.
Ben F. Glisan Jr., the government's last big witness in the Enron trial, testified on Tuesday that Enron was ''weak'' when Jeffrey K. Skilling resigned as chief executive in August of 2001, even as Mr. Skilling was claiming it was in ''great shape.''
Mr. Glisan, a former Enron treasurer who reported to the former chief financial officer, Andrew S. Fastow, took the stand late on Tuesday in his much-anticipated testimony in the trial of Mr. Skilling and Enron's founder, Kenneth L. Lay, who are accused of conspiring to defraud Enron investors.
It started when I decided I needed a new high-end PC for a book I'm writing on Vista, the much-delayed next generation of the Windows operating system.
I wanted a machine with the latest Intel dual-core processor, two gigabytes of memory and a high-capacity hard drive. Because I needed to switch back and forth between Windows XP and my beta copy of Vista, I wanted two removable hard drives that I could swap in and out.
Showing friends your photos on a big screen used to require nothing more than a slide projector and a screen (though a white wall would do). But showing digital photos that way has required either a portable player and a very expensive TV or a digital projector linked to a computer.
Now Panasonic has a compact three-pound digital projector that can show your photos on 38- to 300-inch screens without a computer hookup: just pop in an SD memory card (the most popular type) and it turns itself on and shows whatever images are on the card.
It's not quite 1999, but for entrepreneurs, the money is flowing again.
''It's a Goldilocks market -- it's not too hot, it's not too cold -- it's healthy,'' said James F. Fulton, a partner at the San Francisco law firm Cooley Godward who represents start-up technology companies and venture capital firms.
A Canadian government panel has called for the elimination of foreign ownership restrictions on telecommunications companies as well as the deregulation of telephone and Internet services.
The report by the Telecommunications Policy Review Panel, released Wednesday, outlines a plan for gradually reducing the limits on foreign control of telephone companies, after an examination of similar restrictions on Canadian broadcasters and cable operators.
Thomas H. Lee, the colorful financier who founded the buyout firm Thomas H. Lee Partners, said yesterday that he had stepped down from the firm as part of a long-arranged succession plan and would seek new opportunities in private equity and hedge funds.
The separation ends several years of planning and months of negotiations and speculation over the terms of his departure. As part of his agreement to step down, he will no longer hold an interest in any of the firm's future funds but he will be able to call his new venture Thomas H. Lee Capital.
NORTHWEST AIRLINES, with the sharpest elbows in the industry, is hustling through bankruptcy proceedings, accomplishing in six months what took United Airlines two years.
But once Northwest emerges from bankruptcy, those aggressive tendencies could backfire. Workers, bitter over the size of concessions and the way Northwest extracted them, could become more difficult to manage as the airline tries to improve customer service and efficiency.
A State Department purchase of more than 15,000 computers built by the Lenovo Group of China is starting to draw criticism in the latest sign of American unease about the role of foreign companies in the American economy.
The computers, worth more than $13 million, are coming from factories in Raleigh, N.C., and Monterrey, Mexico, that were part of the personal computer division that Lenovo purchased from I.B.M. last May. Sean McCormack, a State Department spokesman, said at the department's daily media briefing on Wednesday that the computers were intended for unclassified systems and would be serviced by the former I.B.M. division.
THERE is a reason some of the deals on the auction travel Web sites sound too good to be true, Budget Travel reports.
While outright fraud is rare in the offerings posted by the three companies that dominate the travel auction scene -- SkyAuction, LuxuryLink and, of course, eBay -- in the rush to claim a good price, a buyer may not notice handling fees, blackout dates and penalties for changes that can be buried in the fine print.
In a rare move, the Securities and Exchange Commission late yesterday set aside a lifetime ban from the securities industry imposed on the former investment banker Frank P. Quattrone, just days after a federal appeals court overturned his 2004 conviction on obstruction of justice charges.
The S.E.C. said yesterday that NASD, the market regulator that imposed the ban, violated its own rules in taking the action in November 2004.
KNOCKED on their heels, several companies struggled with setbacks this week. General Motors and Microsoft took steps to cope with problems long in coming, while federal prosecutors were staggered by a reversal in a very visible corporate corruption case.
SILVER HANDSHAKES -- Unable to sell enough cars to keep its employees busy, General Motors offered to pay them to go away.
If merger talks with Alcatel are successful, Lucent Technologies' top executive could get a quite substantial payout, depending on how the companies structure the deal, but she would be guaranteed at least $1.78 million in accelerated vesting of stock awards.
Under her employment contract, the chief executive, Patricia F. Russo, would be able to sell the remaining unvested shares of restricted stock that Lucent gave her in 2002 if there is a change in control of the company, even if she remains.
WITH three children and large extended families, Alisha and Sudhir Karandikar thought that their 1,800-square-foot house in San Jose, Calif., was too small. ''For holidays, we really need a formal dining room,'' Mrs. Karandikar, 35, said.
The solution took them well beyond an addition; they are building a 3,200-square-foot house from the old structure, with dining and family rooms, six bedrooms, three baths and a new kitchen, roof, facade, heating and plumbing. ''It's like a tear-down, but we're still sleeping in it,'' Mrs. Karandikar said by telephone as workers clattered around her.
DONALD E. FELSINGER, chief executive of Sempra Energy, the San Diego company with $12 billion a year in revenue, says America needs big energy infrastructure projects such as pipelines to help contain prices. Here are excerpts from an interview:
Q. Why is the United States so dependent on other countries for energy?
I WAS at Virginia Tech and was thinking about being an engineer, but then I decided I didn't like engineering and switched to pre-med. I applied to the University of Michigan for sentimental reasons. I was born in Ann Arbor, still had a lot of relatives there, and the program had a good reputation. I was accepted.
I remember liking gross anatomy and embryology my first year, but in the second year pharmacology was like memorizing the white pages of the phone book.
Layoffs have disrupted the lives of millions of Americans over the last 25 years. The cure that these displaced workers are offered -- retraining and more education -- is heralded as a sure path to new and better-paying careers. But often that policy prescription does not work, as this book excerpt explains. It is adapted from ''The Disposable American: Layoffs and Their Consequences'' by Louis Uchitelle, an economics writer for The New York Times. Knopf will publish the book on Tuesday.
JO GOODRUM, a thin, energetic woman older than her audience of aircraft mechanics -- old enough, perhaps, to be their mother -- got their attention with a single, unexpected sentence, which she inserted early in her presentation. Her husband, she said, had been laid off six times since the late 1980's. And yet here she was, standing before them, in one piece, cheerful, apparently O.K., giving survival instructions to the mechanics, who would be laid off themselves in 10 days.
AMONG hotel inspectors, there is only one quality that is more valued than our ability to review a property's cleanliness, condition and comfort: our anonymity.
Luxury hotels have to undergo rigorous service tests by secret inspectors to qualify for a four- or five-diamond rating. The staff often plays a cat-and-mouse game trying to identify the inspector.
A380 DEBUT -- Singapore Airlines plans to begin the first commercial service of the Airbus A380 in December, and will unveil its cabin design for the new superjumbo jet in September, according to Subhas Menon, the airline's vice president for the Americas. In an interview, Mr. Menon said that all 10 double-deck A380's that Singapore has ordered will be configured with about 475 seats in first class, business class and economy cabins. Most of the 12 other airlines that have ordered the jets -- none of them United States carriers -- have said they will fly their A380's with about 550 seats, though the plane can seat nearly 900 in an all-coach configuration. The first service will be on one of the airline's signature long-haul routes, Singapore to Sydney, Australia, with a London route to follow as more planes come into service, Mr. Menon said. In September, Singapore will unveil an A380 cabin design that stresses ''convenience and comfort, as well as an enhanced ability to do some of the things people need to do on long-haul travel, like work, relax, sleep and get in shape,'' he said, adding, ''We want to emphasize the space.'' The new business- and first-class seats will be introduced around the time British Airways is expected to announce details of a $170 million makeover of its own premium-class flat-bed seats. Singapore has not set a date for starting A380 service to and from the United States, but Mr. Menon said the carrier was looking more closely at using San Francisco International Airport, which has made the necessary modifications to accommodate the giant jet.
A380 TEST -- In a passenger evacuation test required for regulatory certification of the A380 jet, Airbus said it managed to get 873 passengers and 20 crew members off one of its new double-deck jumbo aircraft on Sunday within the required 90 seconds. The test was conducted in a darkened hangar at an Airbus site in Hamburg, Germany. Airbus said that only half of the aircraft's 16 exits were used to empty the jet. During the test evacuation, one passenger suffered a broken leg, Airbus said. The Associated Press reported that 32 other passengers suffered minor injuries. The successful test paved the way for authorities to ''certify the aircraft in time for delivery by the end of 2006,'' Airbus said.
Tokyopop, the publisher of Japanese-style comic books known as manga, announced last month that it had renewed its contract with a division of the Perseus Books Group to distribute Tokyopop's popular graphic novels to bookstores. Yesterday it said it had reversed course and given its distribution business to HarperCollins Publishers.
As part of the new deal, Tokyopop and HarperCollins also announced a joint publishing arrangement to create a new line of manga titles based on the books of HarperCollins authors, beginning with Meg Cabot, creator of the popular ''Princess Diaries'' series.
IN the domestic airline business, less bad news is good news these days.
So some industry people are congratulating each other over new estimates that airlines in North America will collectively lose only about $5.4 billion this year, compared with $10.8 billion in 2005.
Morris Silver, a public relations executive, was remembering the day he tried to get a room at a Los Angeles hotel and was told it was full. ''So they put me in the presidential suite.''
The next morning he went downstairs for breakfast with a client. ''When I got back up to the suite, I was out. 'So sorry,' they said, 'but the prime minister of Japan has arrived and will be occupying the premises.' ''
Defense lawyers sought on Monday to undercut testimony by Enron's former treasurer, Ben F. Glisan Jr., that he warned Kenneth L. Lay that Enron was running low on cash shortly before Mr. Lay told investors the company was financially healthy.
Under questioning by Bruce Collins, a lawyer for Mr. Lay, Mr. Glisan acknowledged that he had assured Mr. Lay, the chief executive, and a group of directors that Enron had enough cash to operate.
GOLDMAN SACHS is buying up more of Europe.
The firm said yesterday that it had bought a controlling stake in the property group of the German department store chain KarstadtQuelle for 3.7 billion euros ($4.5 billion) and that it might bid for Britain's largest port operator, Associated British Ports, which is valued at more than £2 billion ($3.5 billion).
General Motors said Monday that heightened competition and a soft market for sport utility vehicles would complicate the company's recovery this year.
''When we look at what competitors are doing in the marketplace, it is a very aggressive operating environment,'' said Paul Ballew, the chief sales analyst for General Motors, in a presentation to analysts and the media.
After two decades in the same location -- a town house on 57th Street just west of Fifth Avenue -- Ascot Chang, a retailer of custom-made shirts that cost as much as $650, found itself facing an uncertain future. The building had a new owner and the store's $40,000-a-month lease was set to expire in 2007.
So, like an apartment dweller eager to break free from the risks of renting, Ascot Chang decided to buy its own storefront. Recently the company, which is based in Hong Kong, agreed to pay $4 million for 4,700 square feet of ground-floor space at the former Intercontinental Hotel on Central Park South. The hotel is being converted into residential units.
IN a television commercial for Bud Light during the Super Bowl and Olympics, three men climb onto the roofs of their houses, telling their wives that they were going to clean gutters and repair satellite dishes. Instead, the men break out the Bud Light and lawn chairs. One man eventually falls through the roof and into his living room.
Anheuser-Busch, the makers of Bud Light, says the ad was a spoof.
Incentives for oil and gas companies that drill in the Gulf of Mexico will cost the federal government at least $20 billion over the next 25 years, according to the draft of a Congressional report obtained on Tuesday.
The new estimates, prepared by the Government Accountability Office, also warn that $80 billion in revenue could be lost over the same period if oil and gas companies won a new lawsuit that seeks a further reduction in their royalty payments.
General Motors laid off several hundred white-collar workers on Tuesday, its latest move in a restructuring plan that is cutting deeply into all ranks of the company.
Also on Tuesday, a top United Automobile Workers official said he expected the auto parts supplier Delphi to ask a bankruptcy judge to throw out its labor contracts Friday. Such a move would raise the likelihood of a strike at Delphi, which could cripple production at G.M.
Like most fans of the iTunes Music Store, I'm aware of its one-time download policy. Once I download a song, it's my responsibility and if lost, I will have to buy it again. Like far fewer iTunes aficionados, I finally did what Apple recommends that you do. I backed up my music.
Backing up files, by definition, requires a second hard drive. The biggest risk of data loss is disk failure, yet it never hurts to consider the possibility of theft, fire or physical damage either. It pays, then, to have an external second drive that you keep apart from your computer.
THE question of whether it was worth invading Iraq is being asked with increasing frequency and fervency.
A Gallup poll this month found that 60 percent of Americans said they did not think it was worth going to war in Iraq, up from 29 percent at the start of the invasion in March 2003.
The Justice Department's antitrust division announced yesterday that it had approved Whirlpool's purchase of its smaller rival Maytag, a $1.7 billion deal that will create one of the largest home appliance companies in the world.
Despite the dominant market share the merged companies would have, government lawyers concluded that the deal was not likely to reduce competition among home appliance manufacturers substantially, in part because of strong domestic rivals like General Electric and Frigidaire as well as rivals from abroad including LG, Samsung and Bosch.
It had been nearly 15 years since Henri Elfassy boogied the night away at a discothèque, but for the last few months, that's exactly what he's been doing. Not for fun, mind you, but for work.
Mr. Elfassy, 55, is the owner of a high-end salon on Madison Avenue, which until October was known as Salon a Deux. He has an extensive list of loyal, well-heeled followers -- among them, the jewelry designer Judith Ripka-Berk and the actress Candice Bergen. But last spring, Mr. Elfassy began thinking that it was time to bring a fresh face to his business, someone who could connect with a younger, hip crowd but still maintain the quality that his regular customers were used to.
THE hedge fund industry has its fair share of complaints about news coverage, but one issue that particularly irks managers and that can be easily remedied is a frequently employed two-word description: lightly regulated.
Many reports and news articles, including mine, have described hedge funds along the lines of ''lightly regulated private pools of capital open to institutions and really rich people.'' Sometimes we add the fact that these funds charge unusually high fees.
Like many women, my experience shopping for pants is often an exercise in futility.
It goes something like this. I enter the dressing room full of hope with a stash of pants that look really cute, hip and flattering on the hanger. But after 15 minutes of yanking and zipping, I return the whole pile of ill-fitting clothing, and leave the store annoyed and empty handed.
The United States government has intervened in Microsoft's antitrust dispute with the European Commission, urging it and the 25 national governments in the European Union to be fair to the company, American diplomats and European officials said on Thursday.
Microsoft has complained frequently in recent months that it has been denied the right to a fair defense in the continuing antitrust case with the European Commission. It has also accused the commission of collaborating with its rivals in the software industry and denying it access to what it contends are vital documents it needs to prepare its defense.
In a surprise move, the United States Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit in Houston late yesterday ordered that a former Merrill Lynch executive, William Fuhs, be immediately released on bail awaiting final decision on his appeal.
Mr. Fuhs was one of four former Merrill employees convicted in 2004 on fraud and conspiracy charges involving a 1999 sale by Enron of power generators mounted on barges in Nigeria. Prosecutors argued during the trial that the Merrill executives were guilty of conspiring to defraud investors in an effort to win future banking business from Enron.
IT has, as Men's Health magazine points out, become a staple of the advice offered by financial self-help books and experts: If you want to save more money, skip that $4 coffee you have every day.
Compounded at 8 percent interest annually, that small sacrifice will be worth north of $70,000 in 20 years.
GIVE me a pint,'' gets lost in translation -- in Britain of all places -- thanks to the large numbers of immigrant bartenders and waiters, writes Andrew Leonard in the ''How the World Works'' blog for Salon.
On a family trip last summer, ''Polish, Czech, Hungarian and Slovakian waitresses and bartenders abounded,'' he writes. ''But nary a pub featured authentic English-speakers.''
THE stock market in the United States has performed very well since the fall of 2002, when the sell-off started by the bursting of the Internet bubble and accelerated by Sept. 11 and the 2001 recession finally came to an end.
Since then, the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index is up nearly 60 percent, a strong gain that the Bush administration has pointed to as reflecting an economic recovery brought on by tax cuts.
The nation's biggest radio broadcasters are in discussions with the Federal Communications Commission to resolve accusations that station programmers accepted improper payments from record companies in exchange for playing specific songs, officials involved in the talks said last night.
But the talks have stalled on questions about how much money the companies -- Clear Channel Communications, CBS Radio, Entercom Communications and the Citadel Broadcasting Corporation -- might have to pay to settle the case, said these officials, who insisted on anonymity because the talks are at a delicate stage.
MDS, a Canadian drug and medical testing company, suspended operations at its Montreal laboratory on Friday after another unfavorable audit from the United States Food and Drug Administration.
The laboratory conducts tests for generic drug makers to show regulators that their products produce the same results as brand name pharmaceuticals. The F.D.A. audits the Canadian lab because its findings are presented for drug approvals in the United States.
ECONOMICS is called the dismal science, but you would be forgiven for thinking that adherents of technical stock market analysis are even less fun to be around. As investors celebrate five-year highs in major indexes, some chartists are forecasting a sharp, imminent reversal.
Ralph Acampora, a prominent analyst with four decades on Wall Street, attracted attention late in March when he reiterated his prediction of a decline of as much as 20 percent in stocks this year.
QUESTION: Is a fast-growing economy good news or bad? Answer: Normally good, of course, but not always -- at least not if robust growth encourages the Federal Reserve to continue raising interest rates.
That, at least, was the collective conclusion of the stock market last week. The Dow Jones industrial average fell by 96 points in the minutes after the Fed released its latest rate decision. Investors' moods were not helped by the prospect of a potentially damaging labor-management showdown in the auto industry.
DO you remember when Oliver Stone's paranoid fantasy about the Kennedy assassination, ''J.F.K.,'' was released in 1991?
What remains most vivid to me was the absolute fury the movie provoked among political reporters and columnists, who deplored Mr. Stone's view of the Kennedy assassination as a conspiracy, and his depiction of the delusional New Orleans district attorney, Jim Garrison, as a hero. The op-ed fulminations contained an almost palpable frustration: millions of Americans were going to buy into Mr. Stone's rewriting of history -- and there wasn't a thing the punditocracy could do about it.
In a rare victory for the federal pension insurance program, the government says it will stop going after the assets of the industrialist Ira L. Rennert because it has been assured that Mr. Rennert will keep a disputed steelworkers' pension plan going. That means that Mr. Rennert's $185 million estate in the Hamptons is safe.
Mr. Rennert's company, the Renco Group, has owned the pension plan's sponsor, WCI Steel, since 1988. The steel company, based in Warren, Ohio, went bankrupt in 2003, and in the jockeying over who would bring it out of bankruptcy, the pension fund seemed at risk of being abandoned.
THE tectonic changes facing media companies are by now the topic of an often-recited sermon. Put briefly, digital technology is placing control over much information squarely in the hands of consumers and creating all kinds of opportunities for new entrants who can push the revolution forward.
Understandably, attention in this race is focused on the companies that are, as the management consultants like to say, transferring value from conventional outlets to new disruptors that deliver personalized media more efficiently and hence with greater profitability. In other words, to the victor go the spoils.
FOR the last year, investors have been pumping more new money into foreign stock funds than into domestic portfolios. And they've been rewarded handsomely for doing so.
Consider that the average European stock fund has soared more than 14 percent a year, annualized, over the last five years. During this same stretch, funds that invest in domestic blue-chip growth stocks have returned less than 2 percent a year.
''CHESS is like having psychic powers, because I look deep into the game and figure out what my opponent is going to do before he does it,'' said Wesley Yu, a pint-sized scholastic chess champion from Seattle.
''Chess is the best!'' he added, and his parents concurred. His mother, Yuwei Feng, said the game had helped Wesley, an energetic 7-year-old, to focus and learn to face difficulty without giving up.
I GOT kicked out of school at 17 because I got my girlfriend pregnant. I grew up in Lancaster, a working-class city in the northwest of England. Her school allowed her to stay, but my school said I couldn't. I never went back to school.
Being at the Lancaster Royal Grammar School, however, had been a turning point in my life. It is one of the finest private schools in England, and I had gotten a scholarship at age 11 because I was a strong athlete. It was the first time I had met kids who were not from the same environment. My father was a security guard and my mother worked in a shop. These kids were from middle-class backgrounds.
A LAVISH theatrical version of ''The Lord of the Rings,'' which opened last month in Toronto, has been savaged by critics who say it has insipid dialogue and campy songs. True devotees of the fantasy trilogy, however, may be judging the spectacle on different criteria. Sticklers for accuracy, they will have opinions that depend largely on how faithful each prop and costume is to the original story; woe to the show if the aficionados decide that Gandalf's beard isn't quite long enough.
Kit Rae is well versed in such ''Lord of the Rings'' nitpicking. As a product designer at United Cutlery of Sevierville, Tenn., Mr. Rae was in charge of developing a line of souvenir weapons inspired by Peter Jackson's film version of the trilogy. For one of those products, a pair of Elvish weapons known as the Fighting Knives of Legolas, he selected a yellowish hue for the handles. The online protests were legion, as many fans insisted that the handles should be white.
IT has been a rough first inning for Andrew E. Friedman, the cherubic-faced 29-year-old general manager of the Tampa Bay Devil Rays. Opening day looms, and one of his best young pitchers has been lit up for four runs while his third baseman has booted one ball and overthrown another. Business as usual, it would seem, for the bumbling Devil Rays, long a doormat for the powerful big-budget teams in the American League East.
Just over two years ago, Mr. Friedman was a junior banker toiling for an obscure private equity firm in New Jersey. Now, perched on the edge of his seat behind home plate at a spring training game here in St. Petersburg, his poker face intact, he is scanning his BlackBerry for trade offers and checking pitch counts.
SHAREHOLDERS across the nation are finally awakening to the fact that some corporate directors must be forced to live up to their duties and mind the store for the owners they are supposed to represent. To this end, shareholders will be asked to vote this spring on scads of proposals seeking changes in director elections at annual meetings.
These so-called majority-vote proposals would require a company to accept, or at least consider, the resignation of any director who receives fewer than half the votes cast at the annual meeting. So woeful is the state of shareholder democracy in America that such a modest step is seen as real progress.
ON a frigid night in January, lawyers for four of the nation's largest paint manufacturers gathered in a rented office space in downtown Providence, R.I., to strategize on how to counter contentions that their clients were to blame for the state's decades-old lead-contamination problem.
Taking their seats at a conference table littered with coffee cups, they settled in for a long debate on the eve of their opportunity to present a defense in the case, after more than three months of testimony from witnesses for the state. It quickly became apparent that many of the lawyers around the table thought that the state's case was weak, according to three lawyers who were in the room. Some even wondered whether the state was holding back more incriminating evidence for some unknown strategic reason. Others voiced concern that the jury was fatigued.
You can't keep a good cookie guy down.
Wally Amos, who as ''Famous Amos'' became well known in the 1970's for his chocolate chip cookies and efforts to fight adult illiteracy, is at it again: he and his wife, Christine, have started a new company -- Chip & Cookie -- that has a store in Kailua on Oahu in Hawaii and plans to distribute its cookie dough this year through Costco stores in California and Hawaii. Ten percent of profit will go toward a new foundation to promote the importance of adults reading to children.
''WHAT'D you have for dinner?'' my wife said on the phone. She always asks me that when I am traveling, undoubtedly because she knows what I am capable of when I arrive at the dangerous intersection of hunger and jet lag.
''Oh, I picked up something at a 7-Eleven on my way to the hotel tonight,'' I said.
In another move against foreign oil companies, Venezuela's populist government said Monday that it had taken control of fields operated by two European energy giants after they challenged new rules that give the state extensive control over 32 mostly marginal fields that, until now, had been managed by foreign multinationals.
The action, which happened Saturday, takes over fields from Total of France and Eni of Italy and it came just days after Venezuela's energy minister, Rafael Ramírez, publicly said that Exxon Mobil was not welcome in Venezuela after a dispute over the company's stake in the minor Quiamare-La Ceiba field.
THE biotechnology industry is finally getting closer to an elusive goal: breaking even.
Despite its reputation for developing lifesaving drugs and providing high-paying jobs, the industry has lost tens of billions of dollars since Genentech, the first genetic engineering company, was founded 30 years ago this Friday.
The defense in the Enron trial limped into its case on Monday. One of its lead defense lawyers was back in a hospital instead of in court, and the opening lineup of five witnesses offered little testimony to challenge charges against the chief executives, Kenneth L. Lay and Jeffrey K. Skilling.
Michael W. Ramsey, the lead lawyer for Mr. Lay, the former Enron chairman, will undergo more heart surgery on Tuesday after tests on Monday found problems with an arterial stent put in place on March 24, Kelly Kimberly, a spokeswoman for Mr. Lay, said in a statement.
Prosecutors investigating illegal wiretapping by a former private detective, Anthony Pellicano, have charged a film director, John McTiernan, with hiring the detective to wiretap conversations of a movie producer and then lying about it to F.B.I. agents.
Mr. McTiernan, 55, was accused Monday of having made false statements after he told investigators in an interview on Feb. 13 that he had no knowledge of any wiretapping by Mr. Pellicano and never discussed it with him.
California's stem cell research program has arranged for a stopgap infusion of $14 million from philanthropic foundations started by some of California's wealthiest businesspeople.
The money will be used to keep the program going until the resolution of lawsuits challenging its constitutionality. The litigation has prevented the state from issuing any of the $3 billion in bonds authorized by voters to finance research on medical treatments using human embryonic stem cells.
Shares of the Computer Sciences Corporation climbed more than 4 percent yesterday and set a 52-week high after the company said it had hired Goldman Sachs for advice on a possible sale of the company.
The company, which manages computer systems for corporate and government clients, also said it would lay off 5,000 workers, mostly in its European operations, in the next two years. Computer Sciences employs 80,000 workers worldwide. Its shares closed up $2.51, at $59.80.
With the help of the Walt Disney Company, parents can make sure it's still a small world for their children, at least when it comes to their cellphone use.
On Wednesday, the company will introduce a wireless phone service that will allow parents to set limits on their children's cellphone use as well as track them on a map using Global Positioning System technology.
Katie Couric will announce her decision leave NBC's Today'' show, the program she has led to morning news dominance for the past 10 years, at 7:30 this morning during the broadcast of ''Today,'' a prelude to a formal announcement by CBS that she will join that network as its new evening news anchor.
Her announcement, on the 15th anniversary of her first broadcast on ''Today,'' will bring to an end one of the most closely followed talent courtships in recent network history. CBS has sought to secure Ms. Couric's services for well over a year, and NBC made several efforts to keep her at ''Today,'' its most profitable program.
Two years ago, Marty Dragutsky was downsized out of a job selling pharmaceuticals. That startling event forced him to finally take account of his finances. After 30 years in sales, the last 17 years with a division of Abbott Laboratories, Mr. Dragutsky had accumulated a nest egg of nearly half a million dollars in his 401(k) account -- nearly all of it in Abbott Labs stock.
Mr. Dragutsky, 59, of Gainesville, Fla., knew that would not be enough to sustain him and his family through retirement. He had a brokerage account with PaineWebber but rarely used it. So he turned to Davis, Monk & Company, a Gainesville financial services firm, which urged him to diversify.
Five pharmaceutical companies and nine executives are facing criminal charges of conspiracy to defraud the British National Health Service, after a three-year investigation into prices of antibiotics and blood-clotting drugs.
The companies are Kent Pharmaceuticals, Norton Healthcare (now a unit of Teva Pharmaceuticals), Generics U.K., Goldshield Group and the British arm of Ranbaxy in India. The Serious Fraud Office of Britain said on Wednesday that the companies and executives were accused of fixing prices and sharing market information.
When Katie Couric jumps to ''CBS Evening News,'' will advertising dollars follow?
That was the question on the minds of media buyers, who advise companies where to place their advertising dollars, after Ms. Couric announced yesterday that she would take the anchor seat at CBS in September.
Russian stocks, buoyed by high oil prices and a surge of foreign investment, have been soaring. After an 83 percent gain in the RTS stock index last year -- the best stock market performance outside the Middle East in 2005 -- the index is up nearly 33 percent so far this year.
That market boom has multiplied the already apparent signs of wealth in the Russian capital. A Lamborghini dealership has opened. Airline travel has picked up. A trade fair for companies aimed at millionaire customers came to Moscow.
COUNTLESS magazines have run hand-wringing articles about the potential labor shortage that will be caused by the economy's expanding while baby boomers start retiring in droves, but Inc. has a different take.
It reports that a little-noticed practice can help wise employers retain more of the workers they want to keep.
ONE of the great puzzles of human nature is why humans strive for more material things -- money, jobs, homes, cars, flat-screen televisions -- when they do not seem to make them any happier in the long run.
Philosophers have pondered this conundrum for centuries, and modern economists have been examining it over several decades in a multitude of cultures. Not only does greater wealth not guarantee happiness -- even when you get what you want -- research indicates that you will not find it as satisfying as you had hoped, and you will want something else.
The British military company BAE Systems said Friday that it was in talks to sell its stake in Airbus to the European Aeronautic, Defense and Space Company, signaling the end of a nearly 30-year partnership that produced the world's largest passenger plane.
BAE plans to focus all its attention on the lucrative United States military market instead, and is expected to use the proceeds of the Airbus sale to make acquisitions and expand a portfolio that already includes tanks, submarines and weapons like the howitzer.
The nation's work force grew by a healthy 211,000 jobs in March and the unemployment rate dipped to 4.7 percent, the government reported yesterday, suggesting that the economy has picked up speed and is likely to keep growing in the months ahead despite the prospect of higher interest rates from the Federal Reserve.
Claiming credit, President Bush cited the latest increase in hiring as evidence of an economic resurgence fueled by his tax cuts, which he is pressing Congress to extend, particularly the lower tax rates on capital gains and stock dividends.
This weekend, Maria Bland says she will be driving around in a pristine Ford F-150 truck, picking up her dryer and dishwasher from the repair store and enjoying a smooth ride in Miami's sunny weather.
She will also be saving on her gasoline bill: Ms. Bland, a secretarial assistant at a technical high school, is renting the truck for the weekend rather than drive her 13-year old GMC pickup, which gets much poorer mileage. Ms. Bland, who has been renting regularly as gasoline prices have risen, said, ''Sometimes, nothing will do like a rental.''
Do you find infomercials hard to resist?
Are you one of the Americans who spent more than $8.5 billion last year on baldness cures, fitness equipment, options trading systems and other products after watching 28-minute commercials on late-night television?
FIXING lingering problems was at the top of the agenda for many big companies this week, from automakers to television networks.
BURNING FURNITURE? General Motors hustled to raise much-needed cash by selling assets, notably a majority stake in its financing arm, the General Motors Acceptance Corporation, for $7.4 billion immediately, with $10 billion expected by closing and a total of $14 billion over three years.
AT the start of the decade, the thought of throwing money into an index fund that simply tracked an overseas stock market was, well, foreign to many investors.
Not any more. Because of various recent developments -- including the excellent performance of index funds in the recent bull market overseas -- indexing is now widely viewed as a good way to invest in stock markets both at home and abroad.
HOW much is the courage of one's convictions worth? In the case of the Gartmore International Growth fund, the answer seems to be about 15 percentage points.
That's the amount by which the fund beat its peer group in the 12 months through March. Its total return of 41.44 percent placed it first among 585 diversified funds tracked by Morningstar that specialize in shares of large foreign companies; the average return in the group was 26.18 percent.
THE plain fact is that when it comes to measuring how much the American economy produces and who gets what share of the pie, the federal government's most celebrated statistic -- the gross domestic product -- leaves something to be desired.
The G.D.P. is useful, as far as it goes. It tells us how much value -- often called national income -- is generated each year from the production of goods and services in the United States. The G.D.P. also breaks out how much of that income goes into profits and how much into wages and salaries.
THE power of sunlight as an antiseptic will be put to the test in the coming months, as the Securities and Exchange Commission completes its most significant overhaul in 14 years of the rules governing what companies must disclose about their compensation of top executives.
Tomorrow, the commission closes the window for companies and experts to comment about the new rules, which it has promised to enact in time for the 2007 proxy season. If adopted as proposed, they would require disclosure of far more details about how compensation committees set pay for top corporate officers. They also would force companies to provide more comprehensive information about the perks, retirement packages and post-employment compensation they award to companies' most senior employees.
IN 1977, James P. Smith, a shaggy-haired 21-year-old known as Skinny, took a job as a meat grinder at what is now a ConAgra Foods pepperoni plant. At $6.40 an hour, it was among the best-paying jobs in town for a high school graduate.
Nearly three decades later, Mr. Smith still arrives at the same factory, shortly before his 3:30 a.m. shift. His hair has thinned; he has put on weight. Today, his union job pays him $13.25 an hour to operate the giant blenders that crush 3,600-pound blocks of pork and beef.
HANK McKINNELL, the chairman and chief executive of Pfizer, the $51 billion-a-year pharmaceutical company, and chairman of the Business Roundtable, an organization of chief executives, argues that C.E.O.'s are increasingly committed to socially responsible corporate behavior because it is essential to profitability. Here are excerpts from a conversation:
Q. How does the social and political environment around you affect your ability to make money?
As Major League Baseball ponders its decision as to whom it will award the $450 million Washington Nationals franchise, the vying ownership groups have spent the better part of a year jockeying for position and extolling their respective advantages over their rivals. But a group that includes former Washington Redskins football players could have the upper hand.
Calvin Hill, Art Monk and Charles Mann, all former All-Pros on the gridiron, are part of a group led by Jeff Smulyan, the Indianapolis media executive and former owner of the Seattle Mariners. Mr. Smulyan's contingent has had to contend with accusations from the other seven prospective ownership groups that he would be an out-of-town absentee owner.
I FELT like a hostage in the studio of the Home Shopping Network, but it was only the departure area for the newly merged US Airways and America West Airlines at the Phoenix airport.
''We have two seats available in first class for $150 each,'' a ticket clerk at one counter announced as a mob waited to board. A few minutes later came a similar offer peddling discount first-class seats for another otherwise overbooked flight.
Two years ago, few entertainment executives would have guessed that the performances of a sexy female detective, a 40-something single guy ordering a steak sandwich and Madonna as a college professor would be worthy of an Emmy.
But those are among the nominees for the first Emmy award to be given by the National Academy of Television Arts and Sciences for outstanding original programming for computers, cellphones and other hand-held devices, including the video iPod.
Jeffrey K. Skilling denied on Tuesday that he ever arranged secret side deals known as ''bear hugs'' to enrich Andrew S. Fastow when Mr. Fastow was chief financial officer of Enron.
''I don't even know what a bear hug is,'' said Mr. Skilling, Enron's former chief executive, who was testifying in his own defense for a second day. ''I had no agreement with Andy Fastow that would give him a guaranteed rate of return. Period. Full-stop.''
Even before being laid off, for the fourth time in 14 years, from a job as a purchasing manager, Annastine Allen of Bridgeport, Conn., was putting down the foundation -- literally -- for a new career in construction.
Using $135,000 of her savings, she bought a lot in North Haven, Conn., in August 2004, with the intention of building a home and selling it for a profit. Two months later, her shift to self-employment came earlier than desired, with another pink slip.
FOR the chief executive of AOL, Jonathan F. Miller, the gold rush of 2006 is a reality show featuring an interactive treasure hunt to be shown on AOL.com.
In the show, to be called ''Gold Rush,'' clues are scattered throughout the pages of the Web site, hinting where real gold is stashed throughout America.
AMID the bustle and excitement of the New York Stock Exchange's debut as a publicly traded company on March 8, Gerald D. Putnam Jr., the founder of Archipelago, which merged with the exchange, was asked whether trading fees would be increased.
''I've been in this business for 25 years,'' he said, ''and I've never seen a rate go up for what we do.''
After reports of illness and under pressure from major store chains, Bausch & Lomb said late yesterday that it had asked retailers across the nation to temporarily remove its ReNu With MoistureLoc contact lens solution from store shelves.
The company said that it was recommending that consumers switch to another lens care solution while health regulators investigate whether the product somehow caused 109 cases of fungal infections in contact lens users. The company said it would place advertisements in major newspapers today and Sunday to guide consumers on the alternatives.
The Justice Department is seeking a court order to block a Michigan couple from promoting what the government says is the No. 1 tax scheme in the country and to force them to return more than $20,000 in tax refunds. The government also sued seven people it said used the couple's advice, in a move to recover the refunds they obtained.
The main action was against Peter Eric Hendrickson, 50, of Commerce Township, Mich., and his wife, Doreen, 51, who maintain that only a narrow slice of income is subject to tax. Mr. Hendrickson's self-published book, ''Cracking the Code,'' shows people how to exploit what he considers loopholes in the Internal Revenue Service system for processing refunds.
MICHAEL POLLAN'S new book, ''The Omnivore's Dilemma: A Natural History of Four Meals,'' describes a nation that is the victim of ''a plague of corn.'' The No. 1 legal crop is ''the perfect capitalist plant,'' he said on ''Fresh Air'' on NPR this week.
About a third of Mr. Pollan's book is taken up with corn. It is the ''keystone species'' of the ''industrial food chain'' that feeds most of us, he said in an interview with Techdirt.com.
I WENT to London a few weeks ago for five days and left my husband a multipage schedule for our sons' activities.
The three school days were pretty easy -- drag them out of bed, make sure they are wearing clothes that are at least remotely appropriate for the weather outside, down the five-minute breakfast, frantically look for lost folders and backpacks and, with a sigh of relief, drop them off at the school gates.
IN the summer of 1983, the United States was just starting to come out of a brutal recession and the unemployment rate was 9.4 percent, twice what it is now in a recovery that has gone on for more than four years.
But men in the prime of their working lives -- 35 to 64 -- were more likely to have jobs in the summer of 1983 than their successors in that age group are to have jobs now.
The question about the Indian outsourcing industry is, When will the laws of economic gravity slow the business down?
Infosys gave its answer yesterday: not yet.
GOOD and getting better, or weak and getting worse. Both views on the economy had their believers amid mixed signals on energy prices, consumer attitudes, the job market and interest rates this week.
STEPPING ON THE GAS -- Just in time for the summer driving season, gasoline prices began to rise across the country, topping $3 a gallon at some stations in New York, Los Angeles and some other major metropolitan areas.
Instead of first asking shoppers for their prescriptions, LensCrafters, the eyewear retailer better known for its one-hour pick-up pledge than its fashion quotient, is now inclined to ask them what clothes they like to wear.
It is not idle chit-chat, not when $300 brand-name frames are on the line.
The Lexus brand has outsold Mercedes and BMW in the United States for the last five years, but it has long lacked the flagship sedan that could rival them in price, performance and prestige.
Until now.
IN 1995, Jeffrey K. Skilling was feeling blue. Since joining Enron from McKinsey & Company five years earlier, he had worked nonstop to build Enron Capital and Trade Resources from the ground up. In that time, the division had become Enron's crown jewel, and the once stodgy pipeline company had been transformed into a sleek and modern trading machine. The division's success had made Mr. Skilling a wealthy man.
But that success had come at a price, he testified at his trial this week. His marriage was in serious trouble. ''And I wanted to spend time with my kids,'' he said. To get some balance back into his life, he decided to share the leadership of the trading unit with Ron Burns, an Enron pipeline executive. Mr. Skilling would work two weeks out of every month, focusing solely on strategy, and leave the operational decisions to Mr. Burns.
For 13 years as chairman and chief executive, Lee R. Raymond propelled Exxon, the successor to John D. Rockefeller's Standard Oil Trust, to the pinnacle of the oil world.
Under Mr. Raymond, the company's market value increased fourfold to $375 billion, overtaking BP as the largest oil company and General Electric as the largest American corporation. Net income soared from $4.8 billion in 1992 to last year's record-setting $36.13 billion.
ONE of the most revealing, and funniest, scenes in this exposé of union corruption concerns the Mason Tenders District Council of New York, which represents workers in some of the grittiest jobs in construction. The members make good money -- $30 to $43 an hour, plus benefits. But in one job site after another in the 1980's, they were replaced by cheap unorganized labor. Where was the union?
At least until recently, says Robert Fitch in ''Solidarity for Sale: How Corruption Destroyed the Labor Movement and Undermined America's Promise'' (PublicAffairs, $28.50), it was controlled by crime families like the Genoveses and Gambinos. The ''mobbed up'' bosses were extorting payoffs from building companies in return for letting them hire nonunion labor.
YOUR taxes are done, a refund is on the way and you're feeling smug. Well, how's this for a downer? A corrected Form 1099 arrives from your broker or mutual fund, changing the figures you reported.
It is happening often this filing season, as it has for the past two, tax professionals say.
GEOFF GOODFELLOW is a Silicon Valley entrepreneur who came up with an idea that resulted in a $612.5 million payday. But he will never see a penny of it. He remains little known even in Silicon Valley and, perhaps most surprising, he doesn't really mind.
And herein lies one of the stranger tales about innovation and money in the world of technology.
I COME from a family of eight children. I have six sisters and a much younger brother. I was the third-oldest. The town had a population of about 2,000 people.
Having grown up in a small town, I now see that the approach is a lot different from in a city. Everybody knew everybody, and you didn't do anything you didn't want everybody to know about. When I was 5 or 6, my friends and I were playing with matches. Within an hour, my mother knew about it.
BACK when I was in high school in the 1960's, I had this fantasy of maybe someday getting to spend some quality time with Miss January. Little did I imagine that it would be Miss January 2007.
''Very funny, but this get-up is killing me,'' said Rene Foss, a flight attendant for a major airline who was standing in her underwear next to a shiny World War II trainer plane.
AIR travel is the ultimate networking opportunity. I've met some of my best clients next to a security checkpoint, at the gate or on the plane.
The circumstances are not always ideal (after all, it is air travel). But some are less ideal than others. A case in point is the business contact I made as a result of flying with an inebriated passenger.
Shashibhushana Reddy, a 28-year-old software professional with the local division of the Intel Corporation, has invested a quarter of his earnings in India's equity markets for the last three years.
Mainly choosing media, pharmaceutical and manufacturing stocks, he has seen his investments triple as he rides a boom in the country's equity markets.
Several unsolicited takeover attempts in Britain by the private equity funds of Goldman Sachs have reignited talk here and on Wall Street about the often-complicated role of investment banks in private equity.
It's certainly not the first time.
Two monitors with one computer is one thing. But how about two computers with one monitor -- and one keyboard and mouse?
That is the premise behind the Flip, a product from Belkin that lets a computer user switch between machines in style.
WHEN I have to kill a guy in New Jersey or go to an important mob meeting in Brooklyn, I tend to run late. I tell myself I'll just hot-wire a roadster and speed right over, but then I see some florist shop or nightclub that isn't paying my family protection money, and I just have to stop and have a chat with the owner. No matter how busy you are, there's always time for a shakedown.
In the Electronic Arts action game The Godfather, it is easy to become distracted from the game's central story, wandering off to rob a bank, buy a shady business or steal a rival mob's truck.
WITH a brash confidence that recalls the early days of Silicon Valley, entrepreneurial companies in San Diego are pushing the technological frontiers of cellular telephones around the world.
Communications industries everywhere are challenged to meet demands from hundreds of millions of people, in Asia particularly, for phones that seamlessly combine voice, data and multimedia abilities, so that cellphone users can watch longer videos and mini-movies, play interactive online games and communicate worldwide.
IN February, Forbes magazine listed Parag Saxena as one of the nation's top 25 deal makers. But at the end of this month, Mr. Saxena will step down as managing partner of Invesco Private Capital, punctuating a major management shake-up.
His departure highlights what can happen when members of two exclusive clubs with different rules are forced to share the same dinner table. Crabcakes and dinner rolls fly.
The Federal Communications Commission intensified its investigation this week into accusations of pay-for-play practices at four of the nation's biggest radio station owners after settlement talks collapsed, agency officials said yesterday.
F.C.C. investigators issued requests for documents from the four companies -- Clear Channel Communications, CBS Radio, Citadel Broadcasting and Entercom Communications, agency officials said. The F.C.C.'s enforcement unit is looking into accusations that broadcasters violated the law by accepting cash or other compensation in exchange for airplay of specific songs without telling listeners.
THE expression ''think outside the box'' has been overused enough to become jargon. But for a few hours yesterday it was appropriate, as local television stations were urged to diversify beyond their boxes, i.e., TV sets, to remain relevant -- and profitable -- in the new digital age.
''Conventional wisdom, it's an enemy at a time like this,'' said Beth Comstock, president for digital media and market development at NBC Universal, part of General Electric. ''In media today, I don't think there is a single rule that can't -- and frankly, probably shouldn't -- be broken.
CBS Radio and XM Satellite Radio are in talks to replace David Lee Roth, the morning host on seven CBS stations, with Opie and Anthony, the foulmouthed talk team that has been marquee talent on XM for the last 18 months, according to executives at both companies.
In an unusual arrangement that is being closely watched in the radio industry, the deal would split Opie and Anthony's show between satellite and terrestrial stations. For three hours each weekday, Opie and Anthony would do a cleaner version of their usual show -- one acceptable under broadcast standards -- for the CBS audience, produced in the Midtown Manhattan studios of WFNY (92.3 FM), a CBS station. That portion of the show would also be heard on XM.
General Motors sharply reduced its loss in the first quarter, providing a much-needed breakthrough for a company battered by accounting missteps and doubts about the fate of its chief executive and of the automaker itself.
Investors pushed G.M. shares higher Thursday, but analysts expressed concern about G.M.'s inventories, which are at higher-than-normal levels, and about the impact that rising fuel prices could have on the automaker's new sport utility vehicles and pickups, whose success is critical to its turnaround.
Alltel, the mobile phone company, announced a new service plan yesterday that lets customers make free calls to any 10 numbers regardless of the cellphone or land-line carrier of the person being called.
The ''My Circle'' plan, a first among major carriers, is premised on statistics that show that many consumers make most of their calls to about half a dozen numbers. Alltel expects that if customers can call these popular numbers free, they will have more minutes left over to call other people.
WHAT happens if a penny is worth more than 1 cent?
That is an issue the United States Mint could soon face if the price of metals keeps rising. Already it costs the mint well more than a cent to make a penny.
The health insurer Aetna said yesterday that it would not pay for a nerve-stimulating implant the government has approved as a last-ditch treatment for severe depression.
While some analysts said the national noncoverage decision is a continuation of existing policy that came as no surprise, investors saw it as a blow for the device's manufacturer, Cyberonics. The company, based in Houston, has been citing previous case-by-case approvals of coverage by 8 of Aetna's more than 50 local and regional health plans as a sign of growing acceptance of the device among insurers.
OIL prices climbed even higher this week, setting a nominal record on the New York Mercantile Exchange and stoking concern about inflation. After jumping on reports earlier in the week that the Federal Reserve might soon stop raising interest rates, the stock market retreated on the assumption that inflation would force the Fed to continue reining in the economy.
DICEY PRICES -- Led by soaring gasoline prices, the inflation rate spiked last month, and for the first time some analysts detected evidence that volatile energy prices were beginning to seep into the rest of the economy and push up the cost of living generally.
A state court jury in South Texas dealt Merck another setback yesterday afternoon, awarding $32 million in damages to the family of Leonel Garza, a 71-year-old retiree who died of a heart attack in 2001 after briefly taking the painkiller Vioxx.
Texas laws that cap punitive damages will automatically reduce the award to $7.75 million. Still, the verdict is a major disappointment for Merck, because Mr. Garza had a long history of heart disease, including a previous heart attack, and took Vioxx for less than a month before he died.
IF outsized executive pay has indeed become a source of outrage to American shareholders, then the contest this week between Pfizer Inc.'s investors and its board could prove the most compelling of the year.
The battle lines have been drawn between Pfizer's owners and managers, who will assemble on Thursday at the annual shareholder meeting in Lincoln, Neb., at the Cornhusker Marriott hotel.
JOHN BRUTON, the European Union's ambassador to the United States and the former Irish prime minister, says American chief executives are mistaken if they believe that Western Europe is slow-growing or protectionist. Here are excerpts from a conversation:
Q. Are you concerned that we're seeing more protectionism, or even economic nationalism, on both sides of the Atlantic?
WHEN I was at Coe College, I did an internship with the Cedar Rapids, Iowa, visitors bureau. A friend from my fraternity told me about it. I had always been intrigued with the notion of vacations and travel. The only vacations my family took were to the Iowa State Fair for a couple of days. My father couldn't leave the farm. He worked day and night. And all of a sudden I'm involved in an industry that's all about vacations.
I loved it. When the executive director told me about a job in Davenport, R.I., as executive director of that city's convention bureau, I applied for it and got it. After a year, I went on to run the convention and visitors bureau in Providence.
Luxury means different things to different people. To Stephen M. Case, a founder of AOL, who now runs a company called Revolution which invests in resorts, ''it's less about the trinkets and more about the experiences you take away.'' He will discuss his ''new definition of luxury'' on Tuesday at a conference in Carlsbad, Calif., sponsored by American Express, which publishes several luxury magazines.
A favorite among these experiences for Mr. Case, his wife, Jean, and their five children was a holiday at a vacation home in Costa Rica operated by Exclusive Resorts -- a Revolution company, of course -- during spring break in 2005.
The New York Times Company has appointed Vivian Schiller, senior vice president for television and video at the paper, to the position of senior vice president and general manager of The New York Times on the Web.
Ms. Schiller, 44, will manage the day-to-day operations of NYTimes.com, the newspaper's Web site. She will report to Martin A. Nisenholtz, senior vice president for digital operations at the Times Company.
SECURITY EXPEDITING PROGRAM -- The Transportation Security Administration expects to have registered traveler programs running in 10 to 20 airports ''as soon as this summer,'' said Kip Hawley, the head of the agency. The program will allow travelers who undergo a security check to buy an electronic identity card encoded with biometric data like fingerprints and iris scans; cardholders would then use designated lanes to speed their way through security. The agency has not yet said what specific time-saving benefits cardholders can expect. In its latest directive on the program last week, the agency approved a basic business model that requires the private companies operating the lanes to ensure that their cards are compatible with all competing programs and that cardholder privacy measures are in place. ''While the combination of benefits and security measures available at each participating airport may vary,'' the agency said, all members of the program ''should receive an expedited and more convenient checkpoint experience.'' The only registered traveler program currently in operation is run by Verified Identity Pass at Orlando International Airport in Florida; membership costs $79.95 a year. Steven Brill, the founder of Verified Identity, hailed Mr. Hawley's ''clear promise'' that the program would offer expedited screening. Mr. Brill said he expected that his company would introduce programs by June in Indianapolis, Cincinnati and San Jose, Calif., and at eight other airports in the summer and fall. Competitors are developing similar programs and preparing to start some of them this summer.
CORPORATE JET SECURITY WARNING -- Citing a message posted in Arabic on an extremist Web site calling for attacks on corporate and other private jets, the Transportation Security Administration issued an advisory urging general aviation operators to monitor their security procedures closely. More than 13,000 business jets operate worldwide, most of them based in the United States. Last year, 750 new business jets were sold, a 26.9 percent increase over 2004, according to the General Aviation Manufacturers Association. According to the agency, the Web site message said in part, ''It is the duty of Muslims to destroy all types of private American aircrafts that are of the types Gulfstream and Learjet and all small jet aircraft usually used'' by businessmen. Passengers on corporate jets are not usually subject to screenings by agency workers; security is provided by the jet operator and pilots under federal guidelines.
Heart patients face significant complication rates from the surgical replacement of implanted defibrillators, a finding that should temper decisions by doctors about whether to prematurely remove a recalled device in some patients, according to a study published yesterday in a major medical journal.
A separate report in the same publication, The Journal of the American Medical Association, found that while the malfunction rates of pacemakers decreased over the last decade, a similar rate in defibrillators increased fourfold in 2002 from 1998.
Kenneth L. Lay, Enron's former chairman and chief executive, remained defiant on Tuesday, blaming Enron's former chief financial officer and newspaper articles for causing the market panic that led to the company's downfall, while saying there were no underlying problems with the business.
In his second day on the stand in his criminal fraud trial, Mr. Lay blamed Andrew S. Fastow, the former chief financial officer, for profiting from improper transactions, and asserted that The Wall Street Journal had conducted a ''witch hunt'' against Mr. Fastow and Enron.
There is nothing worse than popping in a disc loaded with treasured memories, or even just a favorite movie or sound recording, only to find that the data has disappeared because the disc has deteriorated.
The new Kodak Preservation DVD-R and CD-R products are made to preserve data for 100 years on the DVD-R and 300 years on the CD-R. KMP Media, which is manufacturing the discs under license from Kodak, says they are made with a reflective layer of 24-karat gold, which prevents the tarnish and oxidation that occur with common silver discs.
With ever-expanding music, movie and photo collections, hard drives are filling up fast. The Yellow Machine, a storage device that holds nearly a terabyte -- that's 1,000 gigabytes -- is here to take the load off.
The Yellow Machine is a dedicated file-storage device with four 250-gigabyte hard drives that can be configured so that, to a computer, they look like one big terabyte-size drive. Built-in automatic backup software ensures that memories and downloaded files will not be lost in a system crash.
TiVo perfected digital video recording and in the process shook up the TV industry. In the years since its debut, much has changed: prime-time shows are starting and stopping at odd times, commercials are designed to be watched while fast-forwarding, and an army of competing companies and devices have crowded the market.
One major downside to TiVo until now has been that its devices can record only one show at a time. This week TiVo is introducing its new dual-tuner recorders, one with an 80-hour capacity ($99 after $150 rebate, direct from tivo.com) and another with 180 hours ($199 after $150 rebate).
THE Lorillard Tobacco Company argued in court yesterday that an antismoking group had violated an agreement by using its ad campaigns to attack the tobacco industry and its employees while trying to persuade teenagers not to smoke.
In an hourlong hearing, the Delaware Supreme Court heard an appeal of a lower court decision last year that rejected Lorillard's claim and upheld the position of the group, the American Legacy Foundation, that the ads were not only truthful but effective.
The accounting firm KPMG has enticed enough investors back into a revised settlement over tax shelters, and will now pay out around $150 million to 209 eligible investors.
An earlier $195 million deal, brokered last September through the securities class-action law firm of Milberg Weiss Bershad & Schulman, collapsed after 64 of the 284 investors chose not to take part, saying the agreement did not offer them enough compensation.
Scott C. Dettmer has seen booms before.
He and five other lawyers started Gunderson Dettmer Stough Villeneuve Franklin & Hachigian in 1995. Soon, it and other Silicon Valley law firms were lifted by the explosive growth in technology. By 2000, his firm had grown to 130 lawyers. Then the downturn hit and the firm, based in Menlo Park, Calif., shrank to fewer than 90 lawyers by 20002.
Lawyers for the European Commission and Microsoft faced tough questioning on Thursday about the 2004 antitrust ruling against the company.
During cross-examination by 13 judges of the European Court of First Instance who are hearing Microsoft's appeal of the ruling, the sharpest questions were reserved for the commission. Judge John Cooke, who will write the decision in the case, appeared to chastise commission lawyers for not taking the company's concerns about protecting its intellectual property seriously.
Gazprom, the Russian natural gas monopoly, signed a major deal Thursday with an energy trading unit of the German chemical holding company BASF, advancing the Russian company's expansion into the European retail market.
The deal is the latest in a series of business moves in Europe by Gazprom, the world's largest natural gas producer. The company is seeking to acquire energy businesses to add to its assets across Europe, while it is building or planning to build pipelines to the north in the Baltic Sea and south in Turkey.
IT will happen several times this earnings season, because it always does. A company will report strong sales and earnings, only to have its stock drop sharply because investors were expecting more.
''This growth gap, as we call it, springs from the fact that companies are pouring money into their insular R.& D. labs, instead of working to understand what the customer wants and then using the understanding to drive innovation,'' argue Larry Selden and Ian C. MacMillan in the Harvard Business Review.
MY mail now consists, as does most people's, of pleas for money.
There are the regular bills, of course. And then there are the charities -- ones I've never given to and even more annoying, ones I have already sent a check that are hitting me up again. And again. And again.
The chairman of the Hyundai Motor Company, the world's seventh-largest automaker and a pillar of South Korea's economy, was arrested Friday on charges of embezzlement and breach of trust.
Prosecutors said the chairman, Chung Mong Koo, 68, who led the company's global expansion and raised its image by emphasizing quality, had set up a $105 million slush fund to bribe government officials and politicians. He is also facing a charge of breach of trust, accused of causing more than $315 million in damage to the company through his misconduct.
GRIM news about energy prices collided with great news about the economy this week, but it was no contest. Optimism triumphed; oil prices stalled and then retreated slightly. Stocks rallied.
Worried that stubbornly high gasoline prices might erode consumers' optimism and buying power, President Bush suspended some air pollution rules and stopped adding to the country's strategic oil reserves. Congress, meanwhile, proposed sending each taxpayer $100, to arrive just about when midterm elections are under way.
When Mike McDonald and Jill Martenson bought their little Craftsman house on Locksley Street in Oakland, Calif., in 1999 for $325,000, the couple knew it needed a lot of work.
''It was the worst house on the block,'' Mr. McDonald said.
For leading the turnaround of the Denny's restaurant chain, Nelson J. Marchioli was all but given an extra $500,000 last year, slightly more than his reported bonus for 2005.
But Denny's shareholders would be hard pressed to discover that added part of their chief executive's pay.
The ads for the Pfizer painkiller Celebrex feature a man holding a boy's hand as they walk up a stadium staircase. ''52 steps won't keep you from taking him out to the ballgame,'' they say.
But a heart attack would.
A six-year investigation into whether lawyers at the influential securities class-action law firm of Milberg Weiss Bershad & Schulman used illegal tactics took a significant turn yesterday after a retired real estate mortgage broker agreed to plead guilty and cooperate in the investigation.
The broker, Howard J. Vogel of Englewood, N.J., and Florida, received nearly $2.5 million in kickbacks from lawyers inside Milberg Weiss for agreeing to be, or having a family member agree to be, the lead plaintiff in 40 cases, including lawsuits against Oxford Health Plans and Barnesandnoble.com, prosecutors contend.
INVESTORS in commercial real estate have profited handsomely in the last two years or so as a stable economy, job growth and keen interest from pension funds and other institutions drive demand for properties or companies that hold them.
In fact, investors who put their money into the companies that broker deals, manage buildings and provide related services have reaped particularly rich returns.
IT'S often argued that foreigners funnel their money into the United States because it is a great investment. But for many countries, plowing money into the United States these days is not all that compelling a deal.
Poor nations are financing much of the United States' current account deficit. They are losing money in the process, and as the losses mount, they will be tempted to do something better with their cash.
KEITH FERRAZZI did not enjoy Valentine's Day this year. He and his boyfriend of two years had just split up, and for the first time since he was 21, Mr. Ferrazzi, 39, would spend Valentine's Day alone.
But hard as the day was, Mr. Ferrazzi knows it could have been a lot worse. At work, at least, he could escape from the melancholy.
IN recent years, investors have been picking stocks based on a host of variables, from oil prices to interest rates to earnings growth. But one factor that hasn't played a significant role in the investment calculus lately is valuations.
In other words, investors haven't been paying much attention to how expensive or cheap the stock market is.
AS the only business columnist I know who was once a doorman, I couldn't read about the last-minute contract agreement for New York's apartment-building workers without thinking about the guillotine.
It's not that my experience -- three summers at the portal of a classy old pile on 69th and Lexington -- turned me into a revolutionary. Quite the contrary, those summers gave me the wherewithal to grab a low spot on the totem pole of bourgeois life, a spot to which I have clung desperately ever since.
MY parents were from Russia, but they would never have met there. They were from different classes. My father's family was poor. They worked in factories when they came to this country, and he eventually became a doctor. My mother came from a wealthy family that had to leave because of the revolution. They sewed their jewelry inside a coat to take it with them. I was born in Brooklyn and moved to Larchmont, N.Y., when I was 12.
I always wanted my own money. I've worked since I was in high school; I knew that money is power. My first job was selling jewelry behind a counter at Wanamaker's. I had a class with Margaret Mead, and I might have become an anthropologist like her, but I've known since I was 4 that I wanted to be an actress. When my preschool teacher put a pussycat hat on me for a play, that was it.
A CUSTOMER services representative at Ameritrade received a curious phone call last July. The caller said she was a customer and was asking to change the restrictions on her account. The Ameritrade representative, however, had doubts -- big ones.
''The caller does not sound like a female,'' the representative wrote, ''by no means.''
Chrysler, which enjoyed great success with television ads featuring Snoop Dogg hanging out with Lee Iacocca, has returned to the hip-hop world -- this time to give a little back. Officials from Chrysler Financial, the financing arm of DaimlerChrysler, recently teamed up with the hip-hop entrepreneur Russell Simmons, the performers LL Cool J, T.I. and Nas, and the Warner Music Group executive vice president Kevin Liles to bring the concept of ''financial empowerment'' to New York.
The program was one of six being held across the country to promote the importance of financial literacy among teenagers and young adults.
WHEN the makeup artist Mally Roncal was getting ready to introduce her cosmetics line Mally Beauty last year, she knew she wanted to sell it on QVC, the home-shopping channel.
Some of her advisers turned up their noses, she said. ''They asked: 'Why would you want that? Wouldn't you want to go to Neiman's? Wouldn't you want to go to Saks?' ''
Computers can be a source of great power -- and frustration -- for operators of small businesses. Here are new technology tips that can address both ends of that spectrum.
CLOCKWISE -- As smart as computers are, they know only what people tell them. And apparently no one has filled them in about a change to daylight saving time next year, the first change since 1986, when PC's were just starting their invasion of the workplace.
UNTIL a white 1960 Cadillac Eldorado convertible appeared last February in the window of a new $6 million service center in town, not many people here paid attention to Hagerty Insurance.
They do now.
STEVE MARIOTTI was leading a pleasant life in New York, running a successful import-export business, when he was mugged in September 1981 on the Lower East Side by a group of teenage boys.
Disappointed by the $10 Mr. Mariotti had in his wallet, the boys slapped and knocked him around, leaving him feeling fearful.
WHILE many travelers are still happy to spend their vacations lollygagging on the beach, more and more of them want to learn something on their trips. Last spring, Cher Compton left her husband at home in Naples, Fla., and went to the south of Spain with three of her riding friends to practice dressage on Andalusian horses with instruction from local masters.
At the Epona Equestrian Center near Carmona, Ms. Compton had a daily lesson, a lovely room in the hacienda and meals on a patio. What she didn't expect was the cultural richness. On morning trail rides, she and her friends came across olive groves, a Roman bridge and farmers tending their land. In other words, ''the history of the place,'' said Ms. Compton, 54, who is the executive director of a nonprofit organization. ''It gave us real insight into old Spain.''
IT was a misty Thursday in the suburbs of this sprawling city, and inside a recently vacated house, Austin Atkins and Stefan Meissner were up to their elbows in junk.
The detritus was the usual: ratty couches, empty paint cans, old mattresses. In a closet sat a dusty upright piano. Out back, in the weeds, lay a rusted hydraulic car jack.
LUZ STELLA BONGIOVI has a job that many people would envy. After 12 years in the same business, she supervises more than 100 employees and logs about 50 hours a week, coming into work at 10 a.m. and often working at home. She has been sent on junkets to Hawaii, Las Vegas and Puerto Rico. Her earnings total nearly $170,000 a year.
Her job title: Avon lady.
RIGHT or wrong, it has somehow become conventional wisdom: Wal-Mart is bad for small businesses, outspending, outmaneuvering and outgrowing lesser rivals until they change their strategy or close their doors.
But for Sparky Electronics, a family-owned store in California that sells hard-to-find watch batteries and record-player needles, Wal-Mart is more ally than enemy, more lifeline than threat.
When Nathan Papadopulos, a public relations manager, needs to set up brief small meetings while on the road, he prefers to use hotel lobbies. Often, they are not the lobbies of the hotels he is staying in.
Last January, for instance, while attending the Consumer Electronics Show in Las Vegas, Mr. Papadopulos arranged a 15-minute meeting with a journalist in the lobby of Caesars Palace, where neither was staying.
PROPER etiquette is generally acquired through a combination of upbringing and common sense, augmented by the occasional attention-focusing embarrassing moment in one's youth.
But several years ago, in middle age, I showed up at a business conference and cocktail reception in Tokyo, in July, wearing a tan suit. From the looks I got, I might as well have been wearing sandals, white socks and a T-shirt with a beer company's logo.
The transformation of Temple University in recent years from a commuter school to a residential campus with a more geographically diverse student population is stimulating private investment in one of the city's most troubled neighborhoods.
Today, more than 8,000 students live on or near the main campus in North Philadelphia, twice as many as four years ago. About half live in housing built by the university or created by private developers on property owned by Temple.
It was 7:30 on a recent weekday, and a dozen small-business owners, coffee and muffins in hand, were already hard at work on how they were going to win Congressional relief for their No. 1 problem: rising health care costs.
From across Virginia, people like Mary L. DeViney of Tuel Jewelers, who had driven two and a half hours from Charlottesville, gathered to discuss their priorities with Todd A. Stottlemyer, the new president of the National Federation of Independent Business.
WHEN it comes to many kinds of antitrust enforcement, Bush administration officials call to mind Abba Eban's observation about the Palestinians: They don't miss an opportunity to miss an opportunity.
The administration, following its Democratic and Republican predecessors, continues its unsurprising policy of aggressively combating cartels and price-fixing. (Who, after all, would be in favor of cartels and price fixers?)
APPARENTLY there is no new hot restaurant in Atlanta. Or Detroit. Or Dallas. Or Philadelphia. Or Phoenix.
In fact, you would be hard pressed to find many anywhere in the United States.
I HURTLED toward the restricted military airspace over Avon Park Air Force Range in the rear cockpit of a TF-51 Mustang named Crazy Horse, clutching the control stick. The World War II vintage instruments indicated the plane was going 300 miles an hour at an altitude of 7,500 feet, some 40 miles south of Kissimmee, Fla.
It seemed, however, that I was in a slow-motion dream, sailing on a pale blue ocean frothing with cumulus cloud waves. Next to witnessing my wife give birth to our son, flying the Mustang was by far the coolest, most humbling thing I'd ever done. It made me feel bolder than Batman, cockier than a barnyard rooster. At the same time, it also scared me silly.
THE college commencement season is upon us, raising an always tricky question: What's the best gift for a new graduate? A trip abroad, a new car, the basement studio you'd been hoping to rent out to a paying tenant?
Parents who understand the financial hurdles their young adult is about to encounter might be tempted to answer, ''all of the above.'' But whatever largess parents extend, these days there's one thing no student should leave college without, and that's a financial plan.
They are coming to blow up a lonely outpost of low-cost Las Vegas.
Before daybreak on May 9, an explosives team plans to demolish the Boardwalk Hotel and Casino, a recently closed budget oasis on the Strip with a giant clown face on its facade and signs advertising $1.99 shrimp cocktails. It is giving way to this city's latest incarnation: luxury.
Eleven score and 10 years ago, the founding fathers were sitting around a stifling room in Philadelphia, sweat dripping from their furrowed brows, dreaming up a country. Now imagine a knock on the door, with some founding mothers trying to barge in. ''Can't we be part of this?'' they demand in unison.
The august fathers laugh heartily. ''Not for 100 years,'' one vows. ''Not for 200,'' yells another. ''More like 300, I'd say,'' a third chortles, as they usher the intruders out.
SIMPLICITY can be hard to find.
If you're looking for a summer hat -- the perfect summer hat, in fact -- you can go to various discount chains and find oceans of flimsy straw in pastel colors, covered with twigs and roses and other objects.
ALL work had stopped at the cavernous Boeing assembly plant in Everett, Wash., just north of here. Five thousand rank-and-file workers and others stood idly, some eating airplane-shaped cookies, as they awaited the guest of honor, President Hu Jintao of China.
On a screen above their heads, images of Boeing planes painted in the colors of various Chinese airlines soared to uplifting music that swelled in the background. Then, a series of inspirational words flashed on the screen -- Exploration! Optimism! Brilliant! Vision! -- as Chinese pilots, speaking in Mandarin (with English subtitles), said how much they loved to fly Boeing planes.
I GREW up in Medina, Wash., a suburb of Seattle. We lived a block from Lake Washington, and when I was in high school my father bought a speedboat. Every day before school, even in winter, my siblings and I and our friends would water-ski until our arms almost fell off. Having a boat was an asset for meeting girls.
My first job was working for Rivkin's Jewelers weekends and afternoons in high school. I did everything from cleaning toilets to changing watch batteries. My brother had the job originally, but when he got interested in girls he offered it to me if I'd give him half my salary. The store owners were surprised to see me the first day I showed up. They had no idea about my brother's arrangement with me.
Having declined to accept his full bonus in 15 of the last 16 years, Eugene M. Isenberg, the chairman and chief executive of Nabors Industries, an oil driller, decided that it was time to revise his pay formula -- but he will just be enriched in a different way.
Under a deal that existed until March, once Nabors had earned a 15 percent return on equity, Mr. Isenberg was entitled to 6 cents of every additional dollar of net cash flow. Last year, that would have produced a $41 million bonus for him. But Mr. Isenberg accepted just $3 million of it. For 2006, his bonus formula was cut in half, after which it will revert back to the original formula for the next three years, the company's proxy statement shows.
I WOULD last maybe one shift as a flight attendant.
Maybe just one connection, because they would probably escort me off at the first stop and hand me a bus ticket home after some passenger in 23C gave me a hundred-dollar bill for a beer while I was trying to keep track of the dozen other people I still owed change for their ham and cheese sandwiches. That does not even include helping the passenger in 27B with the crying infant.
A federal prosecutor in the tax shelter trial of 16 former employees of the accounting firm KPMG said yesterday that he thought the firm should cut off their legal fees, but insisted that the government did not put pressure on it to do so.
The testimony by the prosecutor, Stanley Okula, an assistant United States attorney, came at a hearing held to determine whether Manhattan prosecutors inappropriately pressed KPMG into cutting off the legal fees for the 16 early in 2004 as a condition of not seeking indictment of the firm over its creation and sale of questionable tax shelters.
WHAT interests could a 10-year-old girl and a 17-year-old young woman possibly share?
Procter & Gamble is banking that the two-pronged answer is high Internet use and music.
As a college and professional quarterback, Roger Staubach was an athlete with a flair for the dramatic, but in his 25-year career in commercial real estate, he has built his approach around a fairly unheralded side of the business: representing tenants rather than landlords.
In New York, Mr. Staubach has consolidated the Staubach Company's two offices under one leader: the broker Peter B. Hennessy. He said the move signals an ambitious crusade on the part of the brokerage firm, which is based in Dallas, to increase its New York City market share in the next five years to 20 percent, after hitting 5.5 percent in 2005.
Saudi Arabia said Tuesday that it hoped to build a Middle East financial district in the capital city, Riyadh, and to sell a majority stake in its stock exchange, the Tadawul, to investors.
The changes follow a recent drop in the value of the companies traded on the Tadawul. Oil money helped to pump up stock exchanges across the Middle East in the last year, but in recent months some have experienced corrections.
The Cleveland Clinic's board has agreed to take steps to address concerns about potential conflicts of interest that have dogged the institution and its doctors for more than a year.
The clinic, a nonprofit medical research and treatment center, said yesterday that the new measures would give the board of trustees a greater role in evaluating industry relationships that might bias research or patient care. The monitoring will examine outside ties not only of doctors but of anyone working at the clinic and of the trustees themselves.
Many fliers look forward to boarding planes so they can get away from their phones and e-mail. That sanctuary will inch one step closer to oblivion today when the Federal Communications Commission begins to auction off frequencies for in-flight Internet service.
Nine companies, including Verizon Airfone, which pioneered pay phones in the air, are expected to enter bids for the two licenses available. The companies have developed a variety of technologies that effectively create wireless networks on planes so fliers can use their laptops to surf the Web or to make calls with voice-over-Internet technology.
Prices for gold, platinum and other precious metals surged to new heights yesterday as investors weighed an assortment of worries over energy and Iran's nuclear program.
Gold futures, which have risen 36 percent so far this year, jumped 3.1 percent, to $701.50 a troy ounce, and platinum rose 3.4 percent, to $1,235.50 an ounce on the Comex division of the New York Mercantile Exchange.
A senior federal prosecutor said yesterday that a move by the accounting firm KPMG to cut off legal fees to employees caught up in a criminal investigation of the firm over tax shelters played no role in the government's decision not to indict the firm.
The testimony by the prosecutor, Shirah Neiman, the chief counsel to the United States attorney in Manhattan who supervised the investigation of KPMG, came after a top lawyer for KPMG testified that the firm had cut off legal fees to show prosecutors that it was cooperating with their investigation into its sales of questionable tax shelters.
At age 7, Jabious Williams recalls, he walked a mile to a self-serve Exxon station where he offered to pump gas for tips. Working after school and on weekends, he said, he typically earned $30 to $50 a day to help support his single-parent family.
He and his brother, Anthony, grew up in Anacostia, a neighborhood in southeast Washington, plagued by gang violence. Homeless for a time, they lived with their mother in their aunt's two-bedroom apartment.
SIZE matters in hedge funds. But bigger is not always better.
New fund managers tend to knock the cover off the ball during their first two years, accounting for much of the outperformance that has made hedge funds famous, a new study has found.
Research in Motion said on Thursday that after much delay it would introduce its BlackBerry wireless e-mail service in China. But the announcement of its joint venture with China Mobile, which came with few details, quickly prompted questions about how the Canadian company's product would fit into the Chinese government's program of communications surveillance and censorship.
When selling the BlackBerry service to government agencies and corporations in North America and Europe, R.I.M. promotes its sophisticated encryption technology that it says makes it impossible even for wireless service providers or the company itself to snoop into the contents of messages as they pass between its devices and e-mail servers. Once they arrive at the server and are decoded, however, they may be vulnerable to Chinese government surveillance efforts.
The situation looked dire. While Jay Kraeszig of Zionsville, Ind., was on vacation in Florida a few years ago, he had a severe asthma attack and realized he had left his albuterol inhaler in his hotel room.
''He was turning gray,'' his wife, Mary D. Kraeszig, recalled in an interview. ''Probably another couple of minutes and he wouldn't have been conscious.''
THE project, business or division is hemorrhaging cash. All turnaround efforts have failed, but management continues to spend time and resources trying to turn the situation around instead of pulling the plug.
If you want to know why, reread Freud and not Drucker, argue the McKinsey consultants John Horn and Patrick Viguerie, and Dan Lovallo, a professor at the Australian Graduate School of Management at the University of New South Wales in The McKinsey Quarterly.
ACCORDING to Arianna Huffington, the use of banal, insipid language could spell doom for the Internet.
It is not badly written blogs Ms. Huffington is worried about, but the concept ''Net neutrality.'' Congress is debating whether to block Internet service providers from favoring some content providers over others. So, in theory, Time Warner or Verizon could prefer Yahoo over Google, or vice versa (or either of those over an upstart) by giving them more bandwidth in exchange for cash. The preferred sites would then run faster on PC's than those that do not pay.
IT was several months ago, after the enormous tree across the street majestically fell, its roots pulling up the sidewalk, that my next-door neighbor Lisa got really worried.
Miraculously, the tree, caught like a giant whale in the electrical wires, did not damage the nearby home. And there was even a bright side -- neighbors on the other side of the street suddenly realized how sunny their kitchen could be now that its windows were no longer blocked by the leafy branches.
Forged land titles, corruption, high taxes? No matter.
India's real estate market is getting very, very warm.
With great effort and cost, a Russian drilling crew shipped a rig into an Arctic swamp far north of Moscow. They drilled for weeks through rock -- only to find more rock. After drilling eight dry holes in 2002, the crew gave up.
Going against the oilman's motto that the only geologist one can trust is ''Mr. Drill,'' a team of real geologists returned to the problem the next year. This time, equipped with 3-D imaging computers, they placed the rig with pinpoint accuracy over the Val Gamburtseva deposit. It is now producing volumes of oil.
KEEP spending. That message came through in several ways this week, in decisions by corporate boards to pursue mergers despite high valuations, in the determination of drivers to burn more gasoline regardless of near record prices, and in the assumption that consumers will gladly pay twice as much for the latest electronic playthings.
Investors initially pushed the Dow Jones industrial average closer to its record high, set in 2000, but not by much. Other indexes were down slightly, or flat. For the week, the markets lost ground.
Several months of rising gasoline prices appear to be deflating some of the enthusiasm American consumers exhibited at the start of the year.
Warmer weather, higher wages and brisk hiring bolstered spirits and spending through the first few months of the year, but that upbeat mood appears to have been clouded lately by a combination of rising gasoline prices, a cooling housing market and higher interest rates, economic reports yesterday suggested.
When Henry the cat began dragging his legs, his owner, Carol Kalinoski, suspected her 15-year-old pet's problem might be more serious than old age and arthritis.
Steroids weren't helping, so her veterinarian suggested that they do a magnetic resonance imaging exam on his lower spine. The cost was $1,200. Ms. Kalinoski paid. The vet didn't learn enough from that and he advised Ms. Kalinoski of Alexandria, Va., to get a second M.R.I. at the nearby imaging center run by Iams, the pet food unit of Procter & Gamble. Imaging the entire spine would cost another $1,200, and Ms. Kalinoski paid again.
WHENEVER an asset class performs exceedingly well, investors invariably come up with an endless list of reasons they should own more of it -- and convince themselves that it's not particularly risky to do so.
With foreign stocks, many of which have performed spectacularly over the last few years, the prevailing argument appeals to our sense of conservatism. It's O.K. to load up on international equities, the argument goes, because foreign holdings help diversify our investments. And what could be safer than a well-diversified portfolio?
I'M from the Engadine Valley of Switzerland. My first language is Rhaeto-Romansh, a Latin-based gypsy mishmash that's one of Switzerland's four official languages besides German, French and Italian. It's totally useless, but it's the key to other Latin-based languages. I speak eight other languages.
My father believed in discipline and sent me to boarding school at St-Gingolph, in France, opposite Évian. It was like a boot camp. I would look across the lake and see the lights of Lausanne. I wished to go far away and see Hong Kong, Sydney, New York. I was 14 or 15.
AMONG the most arresting scenes produced in advance of the current season of the drama ''24'' is one that has not been seen by viewers who watch the show on the Fox network. It is a car chase through an industrial neighborhood in Chicago featuring the series' main character, played by Kiefer Sutherland.
Last fall, executives for Fox Broadcasting -- which, like 20th Century Fox Television, the producer of ''24,'' is a unit of the News Corporation -- had asked the studio if they could broadcast that 10-minute scene as a ''prequel,'' before the fifth-season premiere of the series in January. The network was politely, but flatly, turned down.
The Registered Traveler program, which promises to help frequent fliers pass through airport security faster if they pay an annual membership fee and undergo a background check, has been pulled aside for a secondary inspection before its scheduled introduction next month.
Many corporate travel managers -- who will be approving the expenses of the travelers most likely to join the program -- say they remain concerned about crucial issues. The program is expected to start expanding next month beyond Orlando, the only airport where it is currently operating, to as many as 20 other airports by the end of the year.
Two major producers of heart devices, responding to a report by a medical group critical of industry's oversight of product safety, said yesterday that they planned to broaden how they conducted such reviews.
In separate statements, the two companies, Medtronic Inc. and St. Jude Medical, said they planned several steps to heighten their scrutiny of device safety and reliability, like increasing the number of outside doctors who serve as consultants reviewing such issues.
Federal officials reached a $10 million settlement yesterday with Lincare Holdings, the maker of home oxygen and other respiratory equipment, over accusations that Lincare paid kickbacks to doctors.
Lincare agreed to pay $10 million to settle accusations by the office of the inspector general of the Department of Health and Human Services that it illegally paid doctors to recommend the company to patients. The settlement was the largest administrative recovery by the office.
Two partners at a prominent securities class-action law firm have taken leaves of absence in the latest twist of a federal investigation into accusations that illegal tactics were used in shareholder lawsuits.
According to the statement released last night by the law firm, Milberg Weiss Bershad & Schulman, the two lawyers, David J. Bershad and Steven G. Schulman, have left the firm in order to prepare defenses for their possible indictments.
CURT A. KAMINER starts his day as any other hedge fund manager would, checking on how his holdings are trading and taking stock of the market forces that are buffeting or bolstering them.
But unlike standard Wall Street investments, Mr. Kaminer's portfolio does not rise and fall on earnings reports, corporate deals and industry turmoil. His world is swayed by other factors, from weather patterns to delays in coal shipments to the timing of environmental regulations.
THE town of Weatherford, Okla., is proud of many things, and one thing it is proudest of is its wind turbines.
Whether you are heading west on Interstate 40 or cruising through the town's Web site, you can't miss them. They straddle the highway for miles, and on the Internet, the propellerlike blades greet every visitor to www.cityofweatherford.com. For Weatherford, the turbines signify its dual devotion to business and the environment.
EVEN after receiving a master's degree in architecture at Miami University of Ohio, with a thesis on sustainable building in communities, Vicki Anderson felt she needed more training if she wanted to design environmentally responsible buildings.
A professor suggested the Ecosa Institute in Prescott, Ariz., which offers semester-long immersion programs in ecological design and sustainability for architects, designers, planners and other professionals.
IN many ways, this city's current fortunes are all about mulch. It's everywhere. Bark mulch is spread in neat circles around the city's trees; roughly 30,000 new trees are planted annually. Darker leaf mulch fills planters along State, Dearborn, Michigan and the other major thoroughfares now blooming in spring colors.
Mulch adorns 70 miles of green medians that have been sown over the last decade with native flowers, grasses and bushes. It's spread on the gardens and open spaces now required by the city to accompany new homes, stores and office buildings. And it sits on many of the energy-saving green roofs of 200 buildings.
YES, there are sweeping views of the Hudson River, 35 acres of parkland and waterfront promenades. But what gets James Cavanaugh especially jazzed about Battery Park City is the reclaimed toilet water, processed by a waste-treatment plant in the basement of an apartment building at 20 River Terrace.
In fact, Mr. Cavanaugh, the president and chief executive of the Battery Park City Authority, has tasted it.
ENVIRONMENTAL DEFENSE wants chicken farmers to stop using antibiotics to spur growth. It wants strict controls on the budding field of nanotechnology. It wants fewer gas guzzlers on the road.
Not long ago, when it was still the in-your-face Environmental Defense Fund, the group would have looked for a company to sue, boycott or at least protest. Nowadays, it is looking for companies that can help it out.
IN 1993, Russ Kremer was driving his new boar from a pen to the sows on his farm in Osage County, Mo. The boar became aggressive while passing another boar and swung his head around abruptly, puncturing Mr. Kremer's knee with his tusk. Mr. Kremer, a fifth-generation pig farmer, said he didn't think much of it until his leg swelled to twice its normal size.
He checked into the hospital and ''they gave me all kinds of antibiotics,'' Mr. Kremer said, but the infection was resistant to them. The doctors finally determined that the cause was a mutated form of staphylococcal bacteria. Mr. Kremer recovered after a course of the most powerful antibiotic, and then he traced the history of the boar that he had bought from a farmer in Kansas.
RENEE ST. DENIS is prospecting. Scanning the rows of the latest arrivals of discarded computers and other electronic products at Hewlett-Packard's 200,000-square-foot recycling plant, she searches for precious metals.
A co-worker calls out, ''Renee, check this out -- an arcade console!''
The streets are strewn with garbage and littered with abandoned cars. There are potholes the size of craters but no sidewalks. Deep puddles linger long after a rainstorm, and business owners must make do with cesspools instead of sewers.
In all, Willets Point seems more like a neighborhood in a developing country than an easily accessible 75-acre enclave in the shadow of Shea Stadium in northern Queens.
The new chief executive of Sun Microsystems said on Tuesday that the company was working toward making its Java programming language available free as open-source software, providing further evidence that Sun's new management sees it as more of a services company than a network computer maker.
In one of his first appearances since taking the helm of the struggling company three weeks ago, the executive, Jonathan Schwartz, told a gathering of software developers here that Sun viewed open-source software as a major part of its turnaround strategy. Turning Java into open-source software would allow outside programmers to examine and modify its underlying code.
Jim Kelly, who has been managing editor of Time magazine for more than five years and last week accepted Time's national magazine award for general excellence, is moving upstairs in the Time-Life hierarchy to the newly created position of managing editor for Time Inc., the company announced yesterday.
His successor, who will become the 16th managing editor in the magazine's 83-year history, is to be announced later this week. The person was said by one Time executive to have ''great E.Q. and great I.Q.,'' meaning the candidate ''is both a first-class intellect and has a first-class temperament.''
Cablevision, one of the largest cable companies in the metropolitan area, will announce today a flat-rate plan for international calls, the latest example of how digital and Internet-based phone services from cable companies and start-ups like Vonage are challenging traditional phone carriers.
Customers will be able to buy 500 minutes of calls to any country overseas for $19.95 a month. At 4 cents a minute, the service plan would cost far less than calls to most countries outside major cities in Western Europe and Asia.
Members of the United Automobile Workers have given their union permission to call a strike against the Delphi Corporation if a bankruptcy judge allows the company to void its labor contracts and reduce their pay.
More than 95 percent of the union members who cast ballots voted to approve a strike, the U.A.W. said on Tuesday.
The chairman of the Hyundai Motor Company, South Korea's largest carmaker and a symbol of the nation's economic rise, was charged Tuesday with embezzling more than $100 million and causing far larger financial damage to companies under his control.
The chairman, Chung Mong Koo, 68, was charged with misappropriating 130 billion won ($136 million) to set up a slush fund that was apparently used to buy political influence, Chae Dong Wook, a senior prosecutor at the Supreme Prosecutors' Office, told reporters. He said Mr. Chung was also charged with breach of trust, accused of causing more than 400 billion won ($429 million) in damages to companies in the Hyundai group.
At least three parties have submitted bids to buy Knight Ridder's two newspapers in Philadelphia, The Inquirer and The Daily News, from the new owner, McClatchy Inc.
Among the bidders are Mortimer B. Zuckerman, owner of The Daily News in New York, who said late yesterday that he had submitted an offer, and Brian Tierney, a public relations executive in Philadelphia who has formed an alliance with Bruce Toll, a founder of Toll Brothers Inc..
A federal investigation of Deutsche Bank's role in questionable tax shelters has widened to include a broader array of shelters than previously known, according to people briefed on the inquiry.
Deutsche Bank, Germany's largest bank, has been under investigation as an outgrowth of the criminal inquiry into the accounting firm KPMG, but the investigation has recently widened to include the bank's links with other firms, and to include shelters not covered in the KPMG case, specifically shelters known as digital options. Digital options involve complex offsetting trades in foreign currency options to produce losses.
Random House, the publishing company owned by Bertelsmann, the German media giant, announced on Tuesday that it would increase the proportion of recycled paper it buys for its books to at least 30 percent by 2010, from 3 percent now.
The company currently buys 110,000 tons of uncoated paper to publish books each year. When it reaches its target of purchasing 33,000 tons of recycled-content paper by 2010, it believes that will be equivalent to saving more than 550,000 trees a year and removing 8,000 cars from the nation's roads, because of the resulting reduction in greenhouse gas emissions.
The Canadian nickel mining company Falconbridge became the target of a second takeover bid Wednesday, this time from its largest shareholder, Xstrata of Switzerland. Xstrata, a diversified mining concern that already owns 19.8 percent of Falconbridge, made an all-cash hostile offer valuing the company at 16.1 billion Canadian dollars, or $14.4 billion.
Xstrata's bid, at 52.50 Canadian dollars a share, exceeded a friendly cash and equity offer from Canada's leading nickel mining concern, Inco, which increased its proposal to 51.17 Canadian dollars on Sunday night. Both offers, however, are below Falconbridge's current market price of 55.60 Canadian dollars after Wednesday's market close in Toronto.
Antitrust officials have raided the offices of some of Europe's largest gas companies as part of an investigation of the energy sector, the European Commission said Wednesday.
Receiving surprise visits on Tuesday were Gaz de France, E.On Ruhrgas and RWE of Germany, Distrigas and Fluxys of Belgium and OMV of Austria.
Robert J. Schwartz, a stockbroker who was an early advocate of using investment choices to foster social change and environmental awareness, died May 9 in Manhattan. He was 88.
The cause was heart failure, his grandson, Mathew Schwartz, said.
''Made in China,'' make way for ''Made in India.''
As global manufacturers seek new places to plant their flags, India is seeing early stirrings of an industrial renaissance.
An American-based energy company, Moncrief Oil International, is threatening to sue two German companies, contending that an agreement they signed with the Russian giant Gazprom interfered with Moncrief's existing contracts to develop natural gas fields in western Siberia.
Moncrief -- a privately owned, family-founded business in Fort Worth -- has sent letters to the German companies, E.On and Wintershall, a gas-distribution unit of the German chemical group BASF, informing them of its plans to take legal action in the German courts, Moncrief's president, Jeffrey Miller, said Thursday in a telephone interview.
Mittal Steel made a last-minute effort to seal the industry's largest merger ever on Friday, sharply increasing its bid for Arcelor by a third, to 25.8 billion euros ($32.9 billion), and making a crucial pledge to cede family control if a deal is cemented.
The founder and chief executive of Mittal, Lakshmi N. Mittal, unexpectedly announced the increased bid a day after an offer for Arcelor was officially tendered to shareholders. The move was aimed at wooing Arcelor management into friendly talks, after a period of wrangling that at one point turned into a corporate clash of civilizations.
WHEN my father asked me for help with his life insurance, I naïvely assumed it would be a straightforward matter of dollars and cents.
A Korean War veteran, Dad signed up for National Service Life Insurance when he was discharged from the Marine Corps in 1953. Like a lot of young servicemen then, he bought a five-year term policy worth $10,000 because the premiums were quite low -- about $20 every three months, he recalls.
HIGHER and higher: Whether it is consumer prices, raw material costs or the fines levied on miscreant corporations, all signs pointed up this week. One exception, besides stock prices, was the dollar, which continued to lose value against other currencies -- including China's yuan, which is all but pegged to the dollar.
PRICE SURPRISE -- Just a day after a barometer of wholesale prices suggested that inflation was under control, the Labor Department reported that consumer prices jumped unexpectedly fast in April, led by clothing, medical costs and air fares, as well as energy.
The assembly workers here are models of industrial efficiency, rolling out a gleaming new sedan once every 57 seconds.
But the ultimate test of their company's mettle comes now: their boss, the charismatic chairman of the Hyundai Motor Company, sits in a jail, accused of the old-style corruption that this rapidly modernizing Asian nation hopes to leave behind.
Homeowners in Michigan have been getting some surprising news lately from their insurance companies -- their premiums are going down as insurers fight for their business.
Not so for the owners of homes on the coast from Texas as far north as Cape Cod -- their premiums are going up, if they are lucky enough to keep their policies.
THE soporific effects of alcohol have spoiled many a late night by eroding an otherwise devoted partygoer's resolve to dance, chat or flirt until the sun comes up. Creative imbibers have done their best to counter this problem by mixing their vodka with Red Bull, the Austrian energy tonic. The results are a cocktail that provides a jolt in concert with its liquor buzz, but can also be sickly sweet; a can of Red Bull has 27 grams of sugar, 8 more than a Twinkie.
David Mandell first noticed his aversion to the taste of this combination in early 2004, as he quaffed the concoction at a stylish Los Angeles bar. Their tongues loosened by a few drinks, Mr. Mandell and a friend wondered whether vodka itself could be caffeinated, then paired with a familiar mixer like tonic.
AFTER the dollar's recent slide, some investors may be feeling a bit like deer caught in the headlights. But if you were unprepared for the dollar's fall, don't panic, several Wall Street strategists say. You may want to react by changing the composition of your portfolio, but fluctuations of the dollar shouldn't be your only concern.
''Buying stocks just because of a falling dollar is not a good strategy,'' said Henry McVey, chief United States investment strategist at Morgan Stanley. ''But buying stocks based on good fundamentals, and getting the tailwind from a falling dollar, that is a good strategy.''
JOSEPH MOINIAN may have ended his recent buying spree of commercial and residential property in the New York metropolitan area, but that doesn't mean that he is slowing down.
Mr. Moinian, the chief executive of the Moinian Group, which he founded in 1980, thinks that it's now time to develop rather than to acquire, and he is focusing on a handful of properties in Manhattan.
IT was only natural for President Bush to boast a bit last week as he signed a bill that locked in one of his biggest tax cuts through the end of 2010.
''We reduced taxes for every American who pays income taxes,'' Mr. Bush said in a Rose Garden signing ceremony. ''We doubled the child tax credit, reduced the marriage penalty, created new incentives for small businesses to invest. We put the death tax on the road to extinction.''
Although he's best known for helping people build their dream houses, the home improvement expert Bob Vila also helps filmmakers make their dream movies.
Interviewed at a party recently at the Brooklyn Academy of Music, which is the host this month for programs with the Sundance Institute, Mr. Vila talked about why the Fledgling Fund, a foundation that he and his family established that focuses on improving health care for poor families, was giving grants to filmmakers. The reasoning, he said, was that films deliver messages with the power to influence policy and public opinion, so he likes to finance film projects that could have a salubrious effect on health care policy.
YOU can't fix stupid, as the comedian Ron White says. Which is the reason I long ago gave up on engaging with rage-addled drivers, including the belligerent fruitcakes who run up on your bumper at 65 miles an hour.
There are just too many idiots out there licensed to operate potentially dangerous equipment (cars), and too many states (about three dozen, but who's counting?) where it's legal to carry concealed firearms. I don't like those odds. I went to Vietnam in early 1968 and nobody shot me, despite clear motive. I'd sure hate to end up whacked on Interstate 95 just because I forgot to turn off my blinker.
I HAVE a nose for scents. It's something I've developed after years in the fragrance industry. I can sniff out a compound in a perfume that most other people couldn't detect. But there is a catch: I can't turn it off. My sensitive nose is in the permanent ''on'' position -- even when I travel.
We all know what it's like to be downwind from the lady at the opera who slathered too much tuberose on herself before the performance. You feel as if you're going to pass out.
Dell, which built its business selling PC's and other electronics directly to customers by phone and online, has decided to try something new: a storefront.
Dell said yesterday that it would open two mall stores this summer as a test, making them a hybrid of Dell's direct model and a conventional electronics store. Dell's products will be on display, but customers will order a PC, television or printer online from the store. Products will be delivered to the customer as if they had ordered from a PC at home, as most of its customers do.
The world's largest chip maker, Intel, said Tuesday that it would introduce a low-cost computer in India, one of the world's fastest-growing technology markets, in an effort to gain greater market share.
Intel announced the Indian computer project as part of a wider global strategy to promote the use of technology in emerging markets. The computer will have a processor, chip set and software designed by Intel and will be produced by Indian hardware makers.
What kind of man is Kenneth L. Lay?
How a judge chooses to answer will be crucial in determining whether Mr. Lay will be convicted in a trial dealing with his personal bank loans. The trial ended here Tuesday.
A product's journey from kitchen counter to the set of the QVC home shopping channel is the success story many American inventors wish for.
In search of a job she could do at home after the birth of her third child, Allison Mills of Lorton, Va., found inspiration in the mess of papers covering her countertop.
Not long ago, Pamela Henning, an executive at a New York-based film company, listened to her music over an expensive stereo system loaded with 2,000 of her favorite CD's. But, she said recently, it was a bit too much to handle. She bought a five-CD changer, later replaced with a single-CD player. Eventually, she chucked it all.
''I found the old-world technology so time-consuming,'' said Ms. Henning, senior vice president for integrated marketing for the Weinstein Company.
Arthur Field, a retired partner at the Shearman & Sterling law firm, was concerned.
Mr. Field had watched his daughter, also a lawyer, return to her in-house job after several years at home with her children.
Britain announced far-reaching plans to overhaul its cumbersome state pension system on Thursday, matching a trend in other advanced economies toward later retirement as people live longer and fewer young people enter the work force. The proposals, part of a broader European response to a pension time bomb, were the most ambitious in 60 years.
The plans, announced by the secretary for work and pensions, John Hutton, would re-establish a link between pensions and earnings scrapped by Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher 26 years ago and introduce a national pension savings program that would automatically enroll workers.
Moving swiftly to fend off a public stock offering, the founding family of Germany's leading media conglomerate, Bertelsmann, announced Thursday that it had agreed to buy out its only outside shareholder for 4.5 billion euros, or $5.8 billion.
The deal, which came two days after the shareholder, Groupe Bruxelles Lambert, gained the legal right to demand an offering, will return Bertelsmann to the full control of the Mohn family.
Concerns the economy might have overheated in the first quarter eased yesterday after revised economic growth figures showed that expansion was indeed strong, but not too strong.
Investors, who have been jumpy over even the slightest sign of inflation, responded by igniting a rally in stocks. Given the Federal Reserve's focus on inflation in its deliberations on interest rates, the markets have responded lately with a high degree of volatility every time inflation fears rise or subside.
Standard & Poor's Ratings Services said on Thursday that it might cut Ford's debt rating deeper into junk status, citing concerns that the company's turnaround was falling short of expectations.
S.& P. put Ford and its finance unit on CreditWatch with negative implications, citing the ''deteriorating product mix and market share in North America and persistently high commodity costs generally.''
Google and Dell have reached an agreement to install Google software on millions of new Dell computers over the next few years, Google's chief executive said on Thursday.
The executive, Eric E. Schmidt, said the arrangement meant that Google's search toolbar would appear on the screens of new Dell systems, and that Dell users would be directed to a Web page branded by the two companies.
It's finally over.
For nearly five years, this city has been trying to focus on something other than the collapse and messy aftermath of Enron.
Guilty! Guilty!
The headline announcing the Enron verdict yesterday in a special edition of The Houston Chronicle was short and to the point, much like the ''extra'' the newspaper produced.
ABOUT 12 years ago, my husband and I flew from London to Montpelier in southern France, and discovered, upon landing, that our luggage was nowhere to be found.
The airline employees told us in French -- which we do not speak, but we got the gist -- that they did not know where our baggage was and they did not care.
Personal income rose and consumers continued to spend freely last month, according to a new government report released yesterday. But at the same time, a crucial measure of inflation inched higher.
Investors were encouraged by the news and seemed to ignore concerns about inflation. The markets rose yesterday, ending the week on an up note.
Lower prices are part of the natural order in the world of electronics. Sometimes, though, the slow but relentless drop in price turns into a torrent. That's happening now in personal computers.
Prices are falling fast on notebook computers, as much as 18.5 percent so far this year, according to statistics compiled by Current Analysis, a market research firm. The bulk of notebooks now sell for less than $1,000.
NEARLY a decade ago, when technology stocks were hot and developing countries were not, a money manager calculated that Intel was worth as much as all the publicly traded companies in India. He thought that a little ridiculous.
In recent years, as any investor in either India or Intel knows, tables have turned. Since the end of 2003, Intel investors have lost about 40 percent of their money, while those in India are up around 80 percent.
Arcelor said on Friday that it had agreed to acquire a Russian steel company in a deal that would repel a hostile takeover by the Mittal Steel Company and create the biggest steel maker in the world.
If successful, the deal would bump Mittal out of the industry's top spot, creating a behemoth with sales of 46 billion euros ($59 billion) and annual production of 70 million tons.
The first step in Aleksei Mordashov's path to becoming Russia's seventh-richest man, with a fortune estimated at $8.5 billion, was privatizing the steel mill where both his parents had worked as Soviet engineers.
On Friday, his company, Severstal, announced a merger with Arcelor of Luxembourg, forming the largest steel maker and supplier of 20 percent of the world's automotive steel.
JUDGMENT day arrived for the two top executives at Enron, and the jury found both men guilty of fraud and deceit. The case was perhaps the most closely watched corporate crime trial of the decade.
GUILTY, GUILTY, GUILTY -- Kenneth L. Lay and Jeffrey K. Skilling did in fact deceive investors about the real financial straits at Enron, the once-highflying energy company that imploded in a wave of accounting scandals, as a midlevel executive once predicted.
Behold the annual migratory ritual that has begun.
Millions of Americans are loading up their children, packing their suitcases and kicking off that great exodus known as the summer driving season.
There was a time in the not-too-distant past when white-collar criminal prosecutions were delicate affairs, where prosecutors worked hard not to treat wealthy and powerful defendants as anything as distasteful as, well, criminals.
No more.
I GREW up in Miami, with a complicated, tortured and volatile father and a mother who tried everything to make a bad marriage work. My father abandoned the family in 1982, but I'm still sure that growing up with him was the reason I wound up in the arts.
When my dad married my mom, he was 23 and she was 18, and they had my older brother, David, just one year later. My dad felt trapped by the parental and fiscal responsibilities. He found his peace through drinking and Valium and beating David, sometimes severely.
FOR her 40th birthday, Daniele Imperiale-Warner of Brooklyn bought herself a bike. An $8,000 bike.
''Some people spend money on watches or cars; this is my big passion,'' she said, explaining that she rides up to 20 hours a week and occasionally races competitively.
MY nephew, Jonathan, a historian, likes to make a humorous toast that was heard at George Washington's dinner table during the Revolutionary War. It goes simply, ''Confusion to the British.''
Of course, we now love the British; in fact, we have for a long time. But the toast that we seem to be making to ourselves these days is simpler, on both sides of the aisle:
THE closest that Col Needham gets to corporate life is the Dilbert calendar in his neat office -- a converted bedroom in a quaint house in the ancient village of Stoke Gifford, a suburb of Bristol, the harbor city that is 90 minutes west of London by train.
As the founder and managing director of the Internet Movie Database, Mr. Needham might just be the archetype of the telecommuting Web-head. The site he founded and runs, www.imdb.com, ranks as the 10th-most-popular entertainment spot online, according to ComScore Media Metrix. It had 18.6 million unique visitors in April, a 67 percent surge from a year earlier.
Ten current or retired corporate executives -- none of them Donald J. Trump  -- have publicly told Defense Secretary Donald H. Rumsfeld: ''You're fired!'' Or, at least, he would be fired if he worked for any one of them.
The executives listed their bill of particulars against Mr. Rumsfeld -- himself a former C.E.O., of the drug maker G. D. Searle & Company -- in a full-page ad published in The New York Times and paid for by Business Leaders for Sensible Priorities, a liberal advocacy group.
FROM the annals of Online Economics 101 comes this shocker: free is good, especially when it comes to paying bills.
Big billers like Verizon Wireless and ConEd learned this bit of wisdom years ago, when they offered customers the ability to pay bills free online. But most banks have come to the same realization only in the last 18 months.
The advertising agency that created the character of the lonely Maytag repairman is about to become lonely, too, as the new owner of Maytag appliances moves the account to another agency.
Leo Burnett in Chicago, which has produced Maytag campaigns since 1955, is losing the assignment as the Whirlpool Corporation, which acquired the Maytag Corporation in March, consolidates accounts at its own agency. So the Maytag brand, along with three other appliance brands, Amana and Jenn-Air, are leaving Burnett for Publicis Worldwide in New York, which creates ads for the Whirlpool brand of appliances in North America.
The investment bank Goldman Sachs is trying to organize Arcelor shareholders to block the steel company's controversial plans to sell off a major stake to Severstal, a Russian company.
Arcelor's management signed a deal with Severstal late last week as a last-ditch attempt to fend off a hostile 26 billion euro ($33 billion) takeover by Mittal Steel, the world's largest steel company. Arcelor has objected to Mittal's offer since it was first made on friendly terms in January. Arcelor said on Friday that it would make a deal worth 13 billion euros ($16.5 billion) with Severstal, selling off a third of the company to Severstal's chief executive, Alexei Mordashov, in exchange for his stake in Severstal and other assets.
THE makers of ''The Da Vinci Code'' opened their film last week in spite of howls of protest from a historically powerful institution, which labeled the Sony Pictures effort ''a provocation'' and ''spirit-lowering tripe.''
The institution was the press, specifically the critics, who gave a C+ to an A-list enterprise that included Tom Hanks and Ron Howard. Sony Pictures did not treat the press much better, making minimal accommodations for reviewers, skipping the usual advance screenings and forcing critics to wait for a screening in Cannes the night before the film was released. Nothing like a jet-lagged press corps to rain on a parade.
Three years ago, Christopher Exline, a Dallas businessman, decided to open a branch of his furniture-rental company in Baghdad after he saw all the looting there on TV.
''I witnessed all of these liberated Iraqis embarking on their own redecorating schemes by looting the palace and office buildings,'' said Mr. Exline, who is chief executive officer of Home Essentials, which leases furniture to employees of government agencies and private companies in Iraq. ''I realized that any good furniture that did exist was now gone.''
I'm 6-foot, 11-inches tall -- not the tallest guy to have played in the N.B.A., but I still tower over the average traveler. I'm on the road about 200 days a year, trying to contend with airline seats and hotel rooms that, to be honest, were not built with professional basketball players in mind.
Don't get me wrong: I love to travel, especially during the N.B.A. playoffs.
Adding to its sizable investment in the former East Germany, the American chip maker Advanced Micro Devices said Monday that it planned to spend $2.5 billion over the next three years to expand production in Dresden.
The $2.5 billion investment will create about 420 jobs, but Hans Deppe, general manager of AMD's Dresden plant, said most of the money would go to machinery needed to produce 300-millimeter wafers.
The Navy Yard, a huge commercial redevelopment area here along the waterfront where two rivers -- the Delaware and the Schuylkill -- converge, fits somewhere between the paradigms of a dense downtown and a sterile suburban office park.
Owned and operated by the Navy for more than 200 years, the 1,000 acres of underused space were taken over by the city in 2000 after the Navy consolidated its uses to the western edge of what used to be called League Island.
IN the first episode of ''Lovespring International,'' a new comedy on the Lifetime channel about a dysfunctional dating service in Southern California, the owner of the agency storms into an office, furious at two employees.
''Do you know how many people have signed up for Perfectmatch.com in the last five minutes?'' she barks. ''1,623.''
The Mirant Corporation, a power company that recently emerged from bankruptcy protection, said yesterday that it had made an unsolicited bid to buy NRG Energy for $7.8 billion. The announcement comes a week after NRG rejected a Mirant offer and declined to enter in takeover discussions.
Mirant, which is based in Atlanta, offered a combination of cash and shares that value NRG at $57.16 a share, or 33 percent more than the company's closing price of $43.01 on Tuesday. Mirant would also assume about $9 billion in debt and preferred securities.
Kim Woo Choong, whose career as the rags-to-riches founder of the Daewoo Group ended in a corporate fraud scandal, was sentenced on Tuesday to 10 years in prison and ordered to forfeit 21.4 trillion won ($23 billion).
The Seoul Central District Court said on Tuesday that Mr. Kim's conviction on charges that included accounting fraud and embezzlement should serve as a warning to others.
The more pills you take, the more you need to know about them when you're gadding about. Is it time to take this pill now? Will the dish I'm about to eat cause a bad interaction? If I've missed a pill, should I take one now, double up next time or simply skip it?
The Rx Master from Excalibur Electronics will tell you all that and more. The pocket-size device ($30 at excaliburelectronics.com and other online stores) can remind you when doses are due, keep track of what you've taken and even carry your pills in a four-compartment drawer.
Those who demand standard keyboards and mice on their PC's may prefer to skip this device. Sony has miniaturized all of the usual components on its way to making the Vaio UX Micro one of the smallest portable computers in the world.
The UX Micro, which will be available online and in stores for $1,800 in about a month, uses Intel's new Core Solo Ultra Low Voltage processor for standard PC performance in a 1.2-pound package.
ECONOMISTS classify advertising into two broad types: informational advertising and image advertising.
Classified ads, yellow pages and search engine ads are examples of the first category; they provide specific information about products and services.
The European Commission issued one of its largest fines against a cartel on Wednesday when it found five acrylic glass makers guilty of colluding and fixing prices.
Arkema of France, formerly known as Atofina; Imperial Chemical Industries and the Lucite International Group of Britain; and Quinn Barlo of Ireland were fined a total of 344.5 million euros ($443 million). Degussa of Germany also participated in the cartel but was not fined because it blew the whistle on the cartel, which ran for five years, and it cooperated in the regulators' investigation, the commission said.
Stocks closed higher yesterday, buoyed by the first drop in oil prices in a week and by signs that the tension with Iran over its nuclear program might ease.
Newly released minutes of a Federal Reserve committee meeting made little impression on trading.
Kimberley A. Strassel, a member of The Wall Street Journal's editorial board, has been named the paper's new Washington columnist.
Ms. Strassel, 33, will be resuming the weekly Potomac Watch column, which has been in hiatus for the last five years. It ceased when Paul A. Gigot, who wrote the column for 14 years, left Washington for New York in August 2001 to become The Journal's editorial page editor. His column won the Pulitzer Prize for commentary in 2000.
Home Depot, in a bow to disgruntled shareholders, said yesterday that it would require a majority vote from shareholders for the election of board members.
The company also released vote tallies from last week's annual meeting showing that a surprisingly high percentage of shareholders had withheld their support from 10 of the 11 directors, including Robert L. Nardelli, the chairman and chief executive.
BRANDS, for teenagers, are fleeting things.
For big, slow-moving corporations, this presents a problem. When Rupert Murdoch's News Corporation acquired the community site MySpace nearly a year ago, the site was at the height of its popularity. But now there are indications that the teenagers who made MySpace cool may be moving on to other things.
Airbus, which has been engaged in a dispute over trade subsidies with its rival Boeing, filed suit in a United States court yesterday, asking that a law firm representing Boeing be excluded from the case because of a conflict of interest.
In a filing in Superior Court of the District of Columbia, Airbus contended that Boeing's legal counsel, Marco C. E. J. Bronckers, a partner in the Brussels office of Wilmer Cutler Pickering Hale and Dorr, had inside information on Airbus because Mr. Bronckers previously represented the company in commercial aviation trade cases.
As executives from Euronext and the NYSE Group  talked up a $10.2 billion deal to create the first trans-Atlantic exchange, a rival suitor, Deutsche Börse of Germany, said on Friday that it would continue to push to join forces with Euronext.
The NYSE Group announced late Thursday that it would acquire Euronext, creating an electronic trading giant with a market capitalization of about $20 billion. By accepting the offer, Euronext rebuffed Deutsche Börse's attempts to create an all-European champion.
CONSUMERS were willing to open their wallets last month, but seem reluctant to do so in the near future. Energy companies, meanwhile, are eager to spend money and are likely to spend a lot more soon. These developments have something in common: energy prices. Gasoline near $3 a gallon and the prospect of high summer air-conditioning bills are spooking many consumers but are exciting energy executives looking to use their cash hoards to buy out rivals.
Seeking to calm the financial markets, which were rattled by these changes and persistent signs of inflation, President Bush nominated a new Treasury secretary with ample credibility on Wall Street and Capital Hill.
The board of Goldman Sachs yesterday elected Lloyd C. Blankfein, the firm's president and chief operating officer, to succeed Henry M. Paulson Jr. as chairman and chief executive.
Mr. Blankfein, 51, will assume both jobs, if Mr. Paulson, who was nominated by President Bush to be Treasury Secretary on Tuesday, is confirmed by the Senate. Mr. Paulson will stay on until then.
A federal judge granted final approval yesterday to a $153 million settlement between the accounting firm KPMG and about 200 investors who bought questionable tax shelters.
In his opinion, Judge Dennis M. Cavanaugh of Federal District Court in Newark, called the settlement ''fair, reasonable and adequate.''
David Boies is renowned as a litigator for going after corporate giants like Microsoft or representing clients like Al Gore.
But it is a tiny, nearly off-the-radar case in Florida against a gardener that has been a virtual thorn in his side for more than a decade, amounting to thousands of hours of manpower, millions of dollars in fees and now, possible jail time, for an employee of his firm.
I GREW up an only child near Pensacola, Fla. My parents and grandparents treated me like an adult from an early age. I worked in our family's variety store, sweeping the floor, making Easter baskets and doing whatever else I was capable of. When I was 8, my father gave me a snow cone machine and I opened my own business.
I set up shop at the entrance of the store. Instead of investing in a syrup dispenser, which would have saved me money in the long run, I used squeezable ketchup bottles to pour the syrup. I couldn't justify spending $60 for a dispenser. When I was 9 or 10 I started a winter business, taking Polaroids of kids on Santa's knee on the first floor of the store.
LAST Tuesday, when President Bush introduced Henry M. Paulson Jr. as his choice to replace John W. Snow as Treasury secretary, Mr. Bush rattled off a string of impressive economic statistics.
''In the first quarter of 2006, the U.S. economy grew at an annual rate of 5.3 percent, the fastest growth in two and a half years,'' he said, as Mr. Paulson, the chief executive of Goldman Sachs, looked on. ''We added 5.2 million new jobs since August of 2003. The national unemployment rate is down to 4.7 percent. Productivity is high, and that's leading to higher wages and a higher standard of living for the American people.''
THOSE pesky customers are making it harder for businesses to rack up sales.
There are two main reasons for that: the proliferation of media outlets, which slice the market into ever smaller pieces, and the growing number of ways that consumers have found to avoid marketers altogether. (The ''do not call registry'' blocks most telemarketing calls, many channels on satellite radio do not carry commercials and TiVo and its kin allow television viewers to skip commercials.)
''ART consists of limitation,'' G. K. Chesterton said. ''The most beautiful part of every picture is the frame.'' Well put, although the buyer of the latest multimillion-dollar Picasso may not agree.
But there are pictures -- whether sketches on paper or oils on canvas -- that may look like nothing but scratch marks or listless piles of paint when you bring them home from the auction house or dealer. But with the addition of the perfect frame, these works of art may glow or gleam or rustle or whatever their makers intended them to do.
ARTISTS bemoan the compromises they must make to pay the bills. The dream may be a life immersed in creative pursuits, but the reality is often a drab 9-to-5 job that leaves scant time or energy for anything more imaginative than defrosting dinner and watching television.
Kelly Butler once counted herself among the ranks of frustrated artists, as she trudged through a job making sandals at a factory in Nashville.
GOOD things come to those who agitate.
That is a lesson that investors everywhere can draw from a recent incident involving DWS Funds, a family of more than 100 mutual funds, and a money manager who owns shares in one of them.
''GUILTY.''
Judge Simeon T. Lake III's reading of the verdict landed like a bombshell in his federal courtroom in Houston. The first cries came from the second row, where the children of Kenneth L. Lay, the former Enron chairman, lurched forward and began sobbing.
For every two shares of its newly traded stock that MasterCard has given to its chief executive, Robert W. Selander, it gave about three to the company's rank and file. The entire rank and file.
MasterCard, which went public on May 25 with a $2.4 billion stock sale, disclosed last week that Mr. Selander received 287,341 shares of restricted stock on the day of the offering. Each of the company's 4,400 employees received 100 shares that will vest in three years -- if they are still working for MasterCard then.
The spectacle of wayward corporate chiefs being sentenced to hard time in real prisons is not strictly an American phenomenon, despite the attention given to Kenneth L. Lay and Jeffrey K. Skilling at Enron, L. Dennis Kozlowski at Tyco, Bernard J. Ebbers at WorldCom, Martha Stewart, et al.
Executives around the world have also been sent to jail -- or have been given big fines.
NEVER mind the Zen conundrum about the sound of one hand clapping. What is the sound of the organization that bills itself as the voice of older Americans?
Consumers will find out soon as a result of an innovative agreement between AARP, the organization formerly known as the American Association of Retired Persons, and DMI Music and Media Solutions in Pasadena, Calif. DMI, which works for marketers like Coca-Cola, Kellogg, Mattel, Procter & Gamble, Target, Toyota and United Airlines, has been hired to develop a strategy to make music and sound part of the AARP brand.
Last year, the number of new college textbooks sold by American publishers dropped for the second year in a row. But the revenue brought in by such books rose for at least the fifth consecutive year, sustained by continuing price increases.
''They're bumping it up by about $2 a year,'' said Albert N. Greco, a senior researcher at the nonprofit Institute for Publishing Research. He analyzed book sales data for the Book Industry Trends 2006 report, which was recently released.
HBO, as part of its campaign to promote the coming third season of its popular comedy ''Entourage,'' which starts this Sunday, is offering Internet users the chance to undergo a nerve-racking job interview with the cutthroat Hollywood agent Ari Gold, played by Jeremy Piven.
''Entourage'' is a biting satire that follows the story of the rising film star Vincent Chase, who comes to Hollywood via Queens with his brother and two friends to become an actor, with the help of his agent, the fast-talking Mr. Gold.
Record companies often issue collections of the B-sides and soundtrack contributions of popular acts; Rhino Entertainment, a division of Warner Music Group, is once again faced with a band whose regular albums never sold very well. This time, it will release the rarities online only.
Rhino, which releases catalog material from various Warner labels, plans to announce today that it will release a collection of cover songs by the band Luna that will be sold only at online music stores. In addition, on June 20, the label will release a Luna greatest hits collection as well as a DVD documentary about the band's final tour, which will be sold in traditional stores.
The Y&R Advertising unit of Young & Rubicam Brands has ended a lengthy search for a chief executive by hiring from within.
Hamish McLennan, 40, chairman and chief executive for the Australian and New Zealand operations of Y.& R. Brands, will begin his new job at Y&R Advertising next month, moving to New York from Sydney. The search for a new chief executive began in April 2005, when Ann Fudge said she would give up the post after a series of account losses that included Jaguar and Sony. Ms. Fudge, 55, has remained chairwoman and chief executive at Y.& R. Brands, which also includes units like Burson-Marsteller and Wunderman.
''YOU'RE where?'' my friend asked.
''Kiev''
Brookfield Properties, one of the largest landlords in Manhattan, and the Blackstone Group, a private equity firm, said yesterday that they had agreed to acquire the Trizec real estate company for $4.8 billion.
Trizec Properties owns 61 properties with 40 million square feet of rental space in several major American cities. When the deal is completed, Brookfield will operate and manage some of Trizec's properties in New York and Los Angeles as well as all of its Houston and Washington buildings. Blackstone will run the other New York and Los Angeles buildings along with properties in San Diego.
AT the start of the year, Russian companies had high hopes of raising billions of dollars in stock offerings, tapping into investors' zeal for emerging markets. Twenty-five initial public offerings were planned -- nearly twice the number of 2005.
Then, reality started to hit.
A landmark former Ford assembly plant here that was designed by the renowned architect Albert Kahn is welcoming its first tenant since the late 1980's. The project is expected to give a boost to the beleaguered economy of this city of about 100,000 people at the north end of San Francisco Bay.
The 517,000-square-foot building, which is on the waterfront, is being renovated by the Orton Development Company of Emeryville, Calif. The first phase of the project, covering almost half the facility, is offering warehouse and assembly space. Later phases will be divided among office, retail, restaurant, conference and residential uses. The final configuration will be determined by demand as time passes.
While struggling to find the right mixture of merchandise, Gap significantly ratcheted down its advertising in the last six months -- effectively telling shoppers to take a stroll around the block while its stores got their act together. Now the company, the nation's largest specialty clothing retailer, is ready to invite consumers back inside.
Beginning in July, as Gap prepares to introduce its fall clothing line, the Gap brand will resume advertising on television, again use celebrities in its print marketing and, for the first time, change store window displays once a month rather than once a season.
The Justice Department said yesterday that it had reached a settlement in a civil-fraud-claims lawsuit with Mario J. Gabelli, the money manager, over accusations that he orchestrated a scheme to deceive the Federal Communications Commission in its auction of wireless spectrum licenses several years ago.
The settlement was disclosed in Federal District Court in Manhattan yesterday. The terms of the deal were not announced, but several reports yesterday said that Mr. Gabelli was expected to pay the government more than $100 million.
The pharmaceutical company Pfizer received bids worth more than $14 billion for its consumer products unit, which includes household names like Listerine and Sudafed, people involved in the auction said yesterday.
The offers, these people said, came from some of the company's big rivals like GlaxoSmithKline and Johnson & Johnson, as well as a British household cleaning products maker, Reckitt Benckiser.
At first blush, the PicoCricket Kit resembles a plastic box of arts and crafts supplies, crammed with colored felt, pipe cleaners, cotton and Styrofoam balls.
But this is a craft kit for the digital age. It includes electronic sensors, motors, sound boxes, connecting cables and a palm-size, battery-powered, programmable computer.
With midterm elections only months away, state and local officials nationwide are in the midst of a somewhat troubled transition to electronic voting systems. Two newcomers hope that the security and reliability problems that have emerged will give them a leg up.
The upstarts -- AutoMark Technical Systems and Avante International Technology -- evolved from the inspiration of two entrepreneurs. AutoMark began with Eugene M. Cummings, a Chicago patent lawyer who conceived a system to assist the disabled in voting. Avante sprang from the persistence of a New Jersey entrepreneur, Kevin Chung, who devised an electronic voting system after he witnessed the troubled presidential election of 2000.
Facing increasing pressure from angry shareholders, the steel company Arcelor said Wednesday that it would talk to Mittal Steel, which has made a hostile bid for the company.
The discussions are not necessarily a prelude to a deal between the two companies. Arcelor has already agreed to acquire the Russian steel company Severstal for 13 billion euros ($16.7 billion) to repel the Mittal bid. Arcelor said Wednesday that it had not changed course.
Stocks slipped for a third straight day yesterday, sending the Dow Jones industrial average below the symbolic 11,000 mark for the first time since March. Despite a drop in oil prices, investors apparently could not move past their anxiety about a possible interest rate increase later this month.
Lingering unease over remarks from the Federal Reserve chairman, Ben S. Bernanke, which many investors took as a sign that another rate increase was in store, has left markets jittery all week.
Three former top officers of Buca Inc., an operator of Italian restaurants, have agreed to plead guilty to federal fraud charges in connection with a scheme to create false profits for Buca and allow executives to steal hundreds of thousands of dollars to pay for a wide range of expenses including the use of an Italian villa and visits to strip clubs.
Lawyers for the company's former chairman and chief executive, Joseph P. Micatrotto; its former chief financial officer, Greg A. Gadel; and a former controller, John J. Motschenbacher, said yesterday that their clients would plead guilty to the charges.
The fashion designer Karl Lagerfeld has spun gold with his luxury designs for Chanel and Fendi, and his one-season budget collection for H&M was a retail phenomenon in 2004, with customers lining up in the streets.
But his latest collection, a signature line that was introduced with much fanfare at Neiman Marcus and Bergdorf Goodman this spring, will be discontinued after the fall season.
The Delaware Supreme Court upheld on Thursday a lower court decision exonerating the Walt Disney Company's board and two former executives of charges in a shareholder lawsuit that they neglected their duties and wasted company assets.
At issue was the hiring of Michael S. Ovitz as the company's president in 1995 and his ouster 14 months later with a $130 million severance package, both engineered by Michael D. Eisner, Disney's chief executive. Mr. Eisner left the company last year.
The A.F.L.-C.I.O. filed a trade complaint on Thursday asking President Bush to penalize China, asserting that it violates workers' rights by suppressing strikes, barring independent unions and letting factories ignore laws on minimum wages and child labor.
The complaint says that repression of workers' rights has enabled Chinese companies to push down labor costs by at least 47 percent, undercutting American companies and causing the loss of more than 400,000 factory jobs in the United States.
Airbus and the Chinese government announced late Thursday that they had selected Tianjin, a port near Beijing, as the site for an assembly plant to build A320 narrow-body jets.
Airbus cautioned that a final decision on the project would not be made until the end of September. But the selection of Tianjin is the latest in a series of steps by Airbus toward establishing its first aircraft assembly operation outside Europe, with the goal of catching up with Boeing in the fast-growing Chinese market.
Long-delayed federal rules requiring most wholesalers to be able to track prescription drugs from factory floor to pharmacy door will finally take effect in December, the Food and Drug Administration said yesterday.
The regulations, stemming from a 1988 law intended to combat counterfeiting by verifying a drug's pedigree, were originally drafted in 1999. But the F.D.A. had repeatedly put a stay on the rules because the drug industry said it lacked practical methods for tracking and tracing all of its products. Now, though, the agency said further delay of the ''pedigree'' rules as they are known was no longer justified because of the development of electronic tracking technology, particularly digital identification tags that can be scanned with radio waves.
Royal Group Technologies, a troubled building-materials maker that many thought could not find a buyer, agreed on Friday to be acquired by Georgia Gulf, an Atlanta chemical company, for $1.2 billion Canadian dollars ($1.07 billion).
The deal includes the assumption of debt of about 500 million Canadian dollars. The offer, at 13 Canadian dollars a share, is a premium of 43.5 percent over Thursday's closing share price for Royal.
LET'S take a poll, couch potatoes. Raise your hand if you are excited about the possibilities of television multicasting.
We jest, of course. Chances are that only people who work as lobbyists or media executives have a vague notion what multicasting means, though it has been kicking around for years.
WHEN people ask me where I live I say, ''United Airlines.''
It's no joke. I'm always flying somewhere to attend a conference or hold a yoga workshop. Besides, being on an aircraft -- one of the most stressful and noisy environments imaginable -- gives me an opportunity to practice what I preach.
A Federal Reserve governor, Mark W. Olson, was named yesterday as the chairman of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board, which regulates accounting firms and has come under fire from companies complaining that the costs of regulation have grown too high.
Mr. Olson's appointment, which gives him the job until 2010, came nearly nine months after his predecessor, William J. McDonough, said he was stepping down, leaving the board with an acting chairman as the political pressure grew.
Joseph Stalin, whose name was derived from the Russian word for steel, seemed fascinated with the metal and threw resources at its production during the rapid industrialization of the Soviet Union.
These days, Russia has more steel than it knows what to do with. With cheap labor, energy and iron ore, the huge Soviet metallurgical plants, once looked on as wasteful dinosaurs, have become takeover targets.
Consumers have been willing to spend 99 cents to buy Shakira's ''Hips Don't Lie'' or $1.99 for an episode of ''Desperate Housewives'' from iTunes.
Now Steven P. Jobs is betting they will also pay $9.99 to download ''The Godfather'' to play on their iPods.
AS the frenzied pace of downtown residential development slows in major cities like New York and Chicago, some second- and third-tier markets are just now experiencing an upswing. Especially in cities, like Nashville, where no residential population had existed, people are suddenly hungry for an urban lifestyle and are willing to pay for it.
Although Nashville never hit the skids the way other cities did in the 1960's and 70's -- it remained relatively safe and clean with a lively night life -- virtually no one lived in the central business district, even though the city added 60,000 people from 1990 to 2000.
A joint venture of BP in Russia announced on Tuesday that it would sell several oil fields to Sinopec of China, the first direct sale of Russian oil assets to a Chinese company.
Within hours of the announcement, Rosneft, the Russian state-controlled energy company, said it would exercise an option to buy 51 percent of Sinopec's newly acquired assets, leaving the Chinese with a minority stake.
The Russian billionaire Aleksei Mordashov changed the terms Tuesday under which he would buy a big stake in the European steel giant Arcelor, in an effort to salvage a deal that is facing increasing opposition from shareholders.
Mr. Mordashov said he was now planning to lower the size of the stake he aimed to acquire in Arcelor to 25 percent, down from as much as 38 percent, the level at which he struck a deal with the company last month. He also said he would no longer seek to lead a strategic management committee that would give him some control over Arcelor's long-term future.
YOU know that ''big if'' everyone is always talking about? The one that turns up in sentences like ''I'll get a new car if -- and that's a big if -- I get a raise''?
Now, a leading marketer of life insurance is using a colossal-size version of the conditional.
The board of the Luxembourg steel giant Arcelor seems to be having a hard time deciding what to do next.
The company said Wednesday evening that the board would meet on Sunday to choose between two competing bids, one from Severstal of Russia and the other from Mittal Steel of London. The announcement came after a six-hour board meeting to discuss the two proposals.
Traders on Wall Street are a well-heeled lot.
For betting their firm's money on stocks, bonds, currencies, commodities or derivatives, they routinely take home big salaries and bigger bonuses.
Employee discount programs, which sent car sales soaring last summer, may be about to return.
The Chrysler Group, a unit of DaimlerChrysler, said Thursday it was considering bringing back its program, which offered consumers the same deals that its employees receive, to clear out a backlog of cars and trucks on showroom lots.
Once the purview of fashion aficionados seeking deals on power suits and Prada boots, consignment stores have diversified. Now, just about anyone can find what they are looking for, be it clothes for children and teenagers, wedding dresses, men's wear, plus-size garments, furs, jewelry, formal wear and even sneakers.
With just four months between her engagement and wedding this month, Renee Salomon of Chicago did not have time to order a gown and wait for it to be made. So she found I Do Designer Bridal Consignment, a consignment store in Chicago, where she paid $1,600 for a Vera Wang A-line that would retail for about $5,000 new. Sure, her dress had been down the aisle before, but it fit her size 12 frame, whereas most off-the-rack dresses were sample gowns that were too small.
THE real estate market is still booming -- overseas. So reports Worth, which gives three reasons Americans are increasingly making investments outside the United States.
First, worried about the apparent declining prices at home, they are looking to diversify, John Ferry writes.
The Luxembourg steel giant Arcelor is expected to announce a friendly deal to be acquired by Mittal Steel after its board meets Sunday, ending five months of hostility, several people involved in the negotiations said Friday.
Talks between the companies continued Friday in London and other cities in Europe, people involved said, and they could still fall apart. As of Friday evening, the two companies had not agreed on a price, but the deal could be worth about 26 billion euros ($32.8 billion), up from the previous offer of 24 billion euros at current market price.
Verizon Airfone, whose handsets have graced the backs of airline seats for more than two decades, will end its phone service on commercial airliners before the end of the year.
Verizon Communications, Airfone's parent company, has decided instead to focus on its faster-growing broadband, cellular and television businesses, Jim Pilcher, the director of marketing at Verizon Airfone, said yesterday.
JITTERY investors set aside concerns about inflation and put their faith in profits this week, sending stock indexes higher for a couple of days as FedEx, Morgan Stanley and other companies posted better-than-expected earnings before the markets slumped later in the week.
Profits were not vigorous everywhere, however. Worries about weaker earnings amid competition from lower-cost producers persuaded two cellphone makers to merge, for example. Paradoxically, profits might have been a bit too good for airlines flying across the North Atlantic: government investigators in Britain and the United States subpoenaed business records as part of an investigation into suspicions of price fixing.
Alice Kissell, 58, a longtime asthma patient, still gets indignant when she recalls the brusque receptionists and hours of waiting to see a doctor at her former health maintenance organization in Southern California.
''You felt like a herd of cattle running through,'' she said. But a few years ago, she moved to Whitehouse, Tex., a small town near Tyler in the northeast part of the state. Now Ms. Kissell has a family doctor who knows her and who, despite having a thriving practice, seems never too busy to see her.
In a move that will create one of the nation's largest independent oil companies, Anadarko Petroleum said yesterday that it had agreed to buy two smaller rivals for $21.1 billion in cash to expand its operations into North America's fastest-growing oil and gas regions.
In separate deals, Anadarko will purchase Kerr-McGee for $16.4 billion and Western Gas Resources for $4.7 billion. Those prices represent considerable premiums over the companies' market value, based on closing stock prices Thursday: 40 percent for Kerr-McGee and 49 percent for Western Gas.
As his investments in the stock markets of developing countries were hitting record highs in early May, Tristram Millard had a nagging feeling that things were about to turn down.
He resisted the temptation to cash out, believing that his investments still had more bang left in them.
SPORTS are entertainment. Sports do not often change our world; rather they serve as a distraction from our world.''
So begins a new book, entitled ''The Wages of Wins: Taking Measure of the Many Myths of Modern Sports.'' Written by three young, relatively obscure economists -- David J. Berri of California State University, Bakersfield; Martin B. Schmidt of the College of William and Mary; and Stacey L. Brook of the University of Sioux Falls -- it tries to do for sports, particularly basketball, what Steven D. Levitt and his co-author, Stephen J. Dubner, did for a range of social questions in their runaway best-seller, ''Freakonomics.''
The chairman of Toyota, Hiroshi Okuda, stepped down Friday after a career in which he helped transform Toyota from Japan's biggest automaker into a global powerhouse.
Mr. Okuda's departure, announced at the company's general shareholders meeting, was not unexpected.
WHEN Anne Pashby moved to Baltimore last year, she was dismayed by the complexity of recycling in her new city.
''I can never get it right about which day is paper versus cardboard versus cans,'' said Ms. Pashby, 38, a human resources manager. ''So I've given up on it.''
THE American hotel industry has clawed its way back from the brink. By Sept. 11, 2001, demand for hotel rooms was already weak, and the terrorist attacks sharpened and prolonged the industry's slump.
Recovery was slow, but in April of this year hotel occupancy rates in the United States surpassed the last peak, reached in February 2001, said Randy Smith, the chief executive of Smith Travel Research in Hendersonville, Tenn.
THE cause of crustacean rights took a small leap forward on June 16, when Whole Foods Market said that its more than 180 stores would no longer sell live lobsters and crabs. It cited a commitment to ''humane treatment and quality of life'' for all animals.
Advocates of animal rights quickly hailed the decision, saying it would also spare the crustaceans from the vicious fate of being boiled alive, with no anesthetic to dull the agony, once shoppers brought them home.
Mr. Henry M. Paulson Jr.  The Goldman Sachs Group  New York, N.Y.
Dear Mr. Paulson:
NOW and then, an executive whose brain I'm siphoning will turn the tables and pose a question. And lately, I've been getting a few versions of this: ''You talk to a lot of the traditional media companies. Who do you think has got this Internet thing figured out?''
That is a tough but very pertinent question, given all the digital hurly-burly of the past decade or so.
THE parents of Beau Fraser have spent $30,000 to help him become a better athlete.
From the time Beau was 10, his parents, Gayle and Brian Fraser of Aptos, Calif., have paid for professional coaches, private trainers, athletic testing, baseball camps, tournaments and travel with elite teams -- not to mention travel costs for the entire family to watch him play.
AFTER I graduated from Clark University, I worked as a paralegal on Madison Avenue. I got an apartment in Manhattan, on East 77th Street, between First and Second. It was a fourth-floor walk-up with no sink in the bathroom.
I enjoyed the concept of cable television. During college I had worked on the public-access television station in Worcester, Mass. I heard about a lecture series being taught at the New School. One week the guest speaker was Barbara Ruger, editor of Cablevision magazine. It was a trade magazine, a monthly that was going weekly, and they were looking for reporters. I went home and wrote an article about the lecture series, in the magazine's type font, and was hired for $11,000 a year.
Portuguese soccer fans are 14.67 times as confident as the rest of the world that Portugal will win the World Cup, according to a study performed by comScore Networks, an Internet consumer-research firm. By contrast, Germany's self-appraisal is only 3.73 times as high as the conventional wisdom.
The figures come from a study by comScore that derived ''overconfidence indexes'' for six European countries and the United States. ComScore polled 5,000 people about their national teams' chances of winning the World Cup. Then, on June 6, it compared each country's self-assessment with the odds of its victory on oddschecker.com, a Web site that consolidates bookmakers' odds from two dozen online betting sites.
For those who argue that young people are spending too much time in front of computers, MTV Networks has an answer. It will now let them feed and dote on virtual pets using cellphones.
MTV, a unit of Viacom, plans to introduce a cellphone-based version of its popular Neopets Web site tomorrow. The site (www.neopets.com), which MTV bought a year ago for $160 million, lets users adopt, feed and nurture their pets and do battle with cartoonish creatures including the catlike Aisha and the dragonlike Scorchio.
Though product placement in movies and on television shows is a fairly standard practice, it is generally accepted that magazine and newspaper articles, and television and radio news programs, do not accept payment for naming products.
A recent survey, however, challenges that understanding. An annual poll conducted by PR Week magazine and Manning Selvage & Lee, a public relations firm, asked 266 marketing executives if they had ever paid for broadcast or editorial placement. Nearly half said yes. And nearly 46 percent of those who had not paid for placement replied that they would consider doing so in the future.
The simmering controversy over data from the 2004 clinical trial that caused Merck to stop selling Vioxx bubbled up again yesterday, as The New England Journal of Medicine retracted part of a paper it had published about the test.
In a correction posted online, the journal said that the paper's abstract -- or summary -- should no longer claim that Vioxx causes heart damage only when it is used for more than 18 months. That claim, published as one of the 2004 article's conclusions, has been at the center of Merck's defense against lawsuits filed by people who say that Vioxx, the brand name for the drug rofecoxib, caused their heart attacks and strokes.
ASK random Americans their opinion of the steel industry, and you'll probably hear about smoke-belching plants, sweaty laborers, rampant bankruptcies and sniveling whiners trying to get the government to protect their companies.
The American Iron and Steel Institute, the industry's main trade association, commissioned research asking just that question, and discovered that even well-educated, not-so-average Washingtonians had a pretty dismal view of steel.
The Supreme Court announced Monday that it would consider a lawsuit that accuses the nation's largest telephone companies of violating federal antitrust law by conspiring to carve up local markets to preserve their monopolies.
AT&T, Verizon and Qwest asked the court to rule after they failed to persuade an appeals court that the large consumer action should be dismissed for lack of evidence. The complaint by the consumers did not offer direct evidence of a conspiracy. Instead, it relied on the fact that the companies had engaged in ''parallel conduct'' of not moving into each other's service areas.
Hedge funds must wait to see if the Securities and Exchange Commission will challenge a federal appeals court's ruling on its authority to regulate them before trying to withdraw their registrations.
On Friday, a three-judge panel of the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit ruled that the S.E.C. could not require hedge fund advisers to register with the commission.
In the face of government pressure, a group of Internet companies is undertaking a cooperative effort to help combat child pornography online.
The group, organized last week by AOL, includes Yahoo, Microsoft, Earthlink and United Online. It will initially pay $1 million for a new project of the National Center for Missing and Exploited Children that will develop systems meant to help identify child exploitation on the Internet and refer cases to law enforcement.
The Russian oligarch Aleksei Mordashov lost the battle for the steel company Arcelor for one reason, Russian politicians say: Russophobia, or a bias against Russian businesses and businessmen.
Mr. Mordashov, the 40-year-old billionaire and chief executive of Severstal,  was bumped aside on Sunday, after Arcelor's board accepted a 26 billion euro ($33 billion) takeover from Mittal Steel, saying it was the more valuable offer. Mr. Mordashov was offering assets he said were worth 8 billion euros for a quarter of Arcelor. His offer seemed to be unpopular with some Arcelor investors, who seemed to worry that he would gain control of the whole company. The reaction in Russia to the news was swift and angry.
A $40 billion deal by the copper miner Phelps Dodge to acquire Inco and Falconbridge, two major nickel producers in Canada, could yet be upset by another bid, analysts say.
The Swiss-based mining company Xstrata is not expected to abandon its pursuit of Falconbridge. And even if it defies those expectations, Xstrata will still emerge a winner thanks to the premium it would receive on the 20 percent stake it holds in Falconbridge.
The takeover of Arcelor by Mittal Steel claimed its first victim on Monday in the person of the chief executive of Arcelor, Guy Dollé, who used some of the toughest -- and some observers said insulting -- language during the five bruising months of negotiations for the deal.
Arcelor's chairman, Joseph Kinsch, who is keeping his position with the new company, said that Mr. Dollé would stay on until Arcelor selected a chief executive for the new Arcelor-Mittal.
THE Midtown Manhattan office market is so robust these days that sometimes it is the landlords who are writing the checks -- and making them out to their tenants.
Less than two years after it signed a nine-year sublease for the two top floors of Lever House, the glassy Park Avenue landmark, Cyrus Capital Partners, a New York hedge fund, was encouraged to move again when the landlord, RFR Realty, sensed an opportunity to double the annual rent of $70 a square foot.
General Motors, closing out what could turn out to be the weakest first half of a year it has ever recorded, will offer zero percent financing on most 2006 models over the Independence Day weekend.
From Thursday to July 5, G.M. will offer six-year no-interest loans on all but the most popular Chevrolet, Buick, Pontiac and GMC vehicles in an effort to clear space on dealer lots for 2007 models. Five-year interest-free loans will be available to Cadillac, Saab and Hummer buyers, and three-year deals are planned for 2007 sport utility vehicles already on sale.
On the same day that five Internet companies announced joint efforts to combat online child pornography, some of those same companies presented somewhat less than a united front in addressing proposals on the issue being drafted in Congress.
In hearings before the oversight and investigations subcommittee of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, lawmakers expressed interest in writing legislation to compel service providers to preserve identifying data about their customers' online activities for at least a year.
With airline perks going the way of the dodo, here's one way to get a little extra for the price of your ticket. The Inflight Power recharger uses the trickle of electricity coming from your airplane seat's headphone jack to charge iPods and other portable devices.
The Inflight Power cable has a  1/8-inch headphone plug on one end and a U.S.B. jack on the other. When plugged into your seat's headphone jack, the cable turns the electricity coming from the plane's audio system into usable power. Adapters compatible with iPods, BlackBerries and any of about 700 other devices allow you to recharge almost every hand-held gadget known to man. Your devices will charge much more slowly than when connected to a regular outlet, but if the flight is long enough that may not matter.
Russia has unveiled details of a plan to reorganize the country's myriad nuclear power plants, agencies, institutes and departments into a single state company modeled on Gazprom, the gas and oil giant.
Underscoring the source of its economic inspiration, the name of the enterprise is likely to be Atomprom, Sergei V. Kiriyenko, the director of the Atomic Energy Agency, said Wednesday in remarks on the agency's Web site.
ECONOMISTS are in almost universal agreement that Americans save too little, and several policies have been proposed with the goal of encouraging them to save more.
The Bush administration favors increasing contribution limits on tax-deferred savings accounts like I.R.A.'s. Critics argue that there would be little impact on total savings from such policies, since wealthy households would simply transfer assets from taxable accounts to tax-sheltered accounts.
Indiana became the winner yesterday in a short five-way race to land the Honda Motor Company's newest assembly plant in North America.
The factory will be the sixth in North America for Honda, the second-biggest Japanese automaker after Toyota.
FOR Robert More, deal flow is up, precipitation is down.
Mr. More, a partner with Domain Associates, moved last year from the company's Princeton, N.J., headquarters to Southern California, where the life-sciences-centric venture capitalist firm has a growing second office.
The directors of Michaels Stores, the nation's largest arts and crafts retailer, are expected to meet today to consider two takeover bids that could value the company at about $6 billion, people involved in the bidding process said last night.
Michaels, which put itself up for auction in March, has received bids from two consortiums of private equity investors: one group includes Bain Capital, the Blackstone Group and Thomas H. Lee Partners; and the other comprises Kohlberg Kravis Roberts & Company and the Texas Pacific Group, these people said.
EVERYONE knows about how much iPods cost. But how much does it cost Apple to make them?
Apple will not say, and that bothers Robert Renck, who runs the private research firm R. L. Renck & Company. Since January, Mr. Renck has been advising clients against owning Apple shares. His assessment came to light last week in a column by Herb Greenberg in The Wall Street Journal and on MarketWatch.com.
I WENT looking for a timepiece and a measure of redemption, only to be sucked back down to Chinatown on the next to last day of spring. It was half-past noon, and the sidewalks were teeming with sweaty street vendors and sweatier tourists. The air reeked of cheap perfume, cheaper soap and the take-out lunches of roast duck, pork fried rice and garlic-slathered noodles the shopkeepers were eating at their counters.
I climbed out of a subway hole, looking and feeling like a loser. And I was a loser. Not just any old loser. I was a loser of fine watches, sunburned and bare-wristed, clutching a dog-eared copy of ''The Myth of Sisyphus'' like a flattened aluminum can. The street vendors immediately got my number.
Michaels Stores, which has ridden a wave of baby boomer interest in homespun projects like scrapbooks and sewing to become the nation's largest arts and crafts retailer, agreed to be sold yesterday to a consortium of private equity firms for more than $6 billion.
A group that includes Bain Capital and the Blackstone Group beat Kohlberg Kravis Roberts & Company and the Texas Pacific Group as bidders for the 900-store chain.
Much has been said about the growing number of Chinese tourists traveling outside the country, but there's a huge increase in travel to and within China as well. And where will all these tourists stay?
They might be bunking in a Holiday Inn if Andrew Cosslett, chief executive of the InterContinental Hotels Group, has his way. The former Cadbury Schwepps executive once sold candy in the Asia Pacific region, but now he's got aggressive expansion plans for the familiar name in China, as well as for InterContinental's higher-end hotels like the Crowne Plaza. He discussed those plans during a recent interview. Following are excerpts:
President Bush on Friday nominated Frederic S. Mishkin, a professor of monetary policy at Columbia, to fill an open seat on the Federal Reserve Board.
Professor Mishkin, 55, has been a prolific author of books and articles about central banking and would add weight within the Fed to backers of ''inflation targeting,'' a policy of basing decisions on explicit and publicly disclosed benchmarks for inflation.
BIG. Bigger. Biggest. And then, something completely different.
It was a week of ''can you top this'' deal making, not only in the banks and the boardrooms of Wall Street and London, but in the humbler settings of Omaha and Seattle. And the usual reason for deals -- creating value for investors -- was trumped by one billionaire's desire to put a lot of that value into service for the world's poorest people.
The Cendant Corporation said yesterday that it would sell its Travelport unit, which owns Orbitz, Cheaptickets and other travel services, to the Blackstone Group for $4.3 billion in cash.
The deal, which is expected to close in August, was not unexpected. Last fall, Cendant, the travel and real estate conglomerate, said it planned to split into four independent businesses, either through sales or spinoffs. And Blackstone had long been rumored to be a bidder.
A judge has ruled for Microsoft as part of an antitrust lawsuit brought by the founder of a tablet computer company in one of the last remaining civil lawsuits from a 1998 federal antitrust case against the company.
The lawsuit, filed a year ago by Jerrold S. Kaplan, founder of the Go Corporation, was dismissed in an opinion issued Thursday by Judge J. Frederick Motz of Federal District Court in Maryland. The judge wrote that Mr. Kaplan had the option of filing a new lawsuit at a future date.
French legislators gave final approval on Friday to a copyright law that could force Apple Computer to make songs purchased from its market-leading iTunes Music Store compatible with music players of its rivals.
The Senate and the National Assembly both voted to approve the law, which will also reduce the penalties for the illegal downloading of music to little more than a parking fine.
The European Commission said Friday that it had accused MasterCard of conducting restrictive business practices in the European credit and debit card market.
If the commission rules against MasterCard, the company could be forced to end a transaction charge known as a cross-border interchange fee. The company would not be fined because it notified the commission about the fees long before antitrust officials started their investigation, Jonathan Todd, a commission competition spokesman, said Friday.
General Motors' largest shareholder is pressing the troubled American auto giant to speed up its turnaround effort by forming an alliance with two foreign car companies, Nissan and Renault, which would pay $3 billion for a 20 percent stake in G.M.
The proposal by the billionaire Kirk Kerkorian, suggested in letters to the three companies, is his latest effort to put pressure on G.M.'s chief executive, Rick Wagoner, to quicken the pace of change.
INNOVATION is all the rage.
Chief executives implore their troops to be more creative, the editors of BusinessWeek are starting a new magazine devoted to the subject, and Wall Street awards premiums to companies (like Apple Computer) that come up with innovative products (like the iPod).
NO one was surprised by the recent announcement that management of the New York Knicks had decided to fire the team's head coach, Larry Brown, after he presided over an utterly dismal 23-59 season. The surprise was over the company's decision not to pay him the $40 million remaining on his contract because, the company says, Mr. Brown violated club policy in seeking to make trades and violated the team's media policy in talking to reporters.
The Knicks, in firing Mr. Brown ''for cause,'' are boldly going where many companies have feared to tread -- and may be signaling a new willingness by corporations to start asserting their legal rights to sidestep, or reduce through negotiations, huge severance packages.
EVERY time Marie Cabrera goes shopping, she brings along her mental checklist of things to avoid. It includes products with artery-clogging trans fats, cholesterol-inducing saturated fats, MSG and the bogeyman du jour, high-fructose corn syrup. That last one, she says, is the hardest to avoid unless she happens to be shopping in the small natural-foods section of her supermarket.
As she pushed her shopping cart down an aisle of the Super Stop & Shop near her hometown of Warren, R.I., recently, Ms. Cabrera, a retired schoolteacher, offered her thoughts on why she steers clear of high-fructose corn syrup: ''It's been linked to obesity, and it's just not something that's natural or good for you.''
The stock market surged to its biggest weekly gains in months last week on optimism that the Federal Reserve had nearly finished tightening interest rates.
The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index rose 2.2 percent on Thursday, its biggest daily gain in three years. Federal Reserve policy makers on Thursday raised short-term rates for a 17th consecutive time. But a statement released after their meeting said that further rate increases depended ''on the outlook for inflation and economic growth,'' signaling, perhaps, that the central bank might not increase rates again at its next meeting.
Ron Gettelfinger, president of the United Automobile Workers, has been nominated for one of the vacant seats on the DaimlerChrysler supervisory board.
The move, which is subject to approval by a German court, would place the U.A.W.'s highest-ranking official on the company's top oversight body just a year before the union begins negotiating its labor contracts with the domestic automakers.
The weekend boardroom purge at Airbus and its parent company has eased an immediate management crisis. But analysts and industry executives said it would do little to solve the more deep-rooted political problems at Europe's flagship plane maker.
On Sunday, the major shareholders of Airbus's parent, the European Aeronautic Defense and Space Company, ousted Noël Forgeard as co-chief executive of EADS and Gustav Humbert as chief executive of Airbus, after a damaging delay in the rollout of the A380 superjumbo jet.
The International Energy Agency on Monday called for China to revamp its electric power industry, noting that waste and inefficiency contributed to the need for the country to add enough new, mostly coal-fired, power plants every two years to equal the entire electricity generation capacity of France or Canada.
In a report issued at its headquarters in Paris, the energy agency was especially critical of China's decision to limit increases in electricity prices, saying that this prompted Chinese consumers and industries to use considerably more energy than they needed.
Robert H. Brooks, who, as the self-styled ''Worldwide Wing Commander'' of Hooters restaurants, known for spicy chicken wings and spicier waitresses, took the company to 46 states and 20 countries, died on Sunday at his home in Myrtle Beach, S.C. He was 69.
The company announced the death. The Associated Press said an autopsy found he died of unspecified natural causes.
At first, Dr. Peter Gleason thought his arrest was a joke.
In the early afternoon of Monday, March 6, half a dozen men in suits surrounded Dr. Gleason, a Maryland psychiatrist, at a train station on Long Island and handcuffed him.
The stock market's recent hypersensitivity to global and economic developments paid off yesterday as a batch of positive economic news put investors in a buying mood.
The announcement of the largest leveraged corporate buyout in history sent stocks on a rally early in the day. That rally widened as two pharmaceutical giants, Merck and Schering-Plough, reported unexpectedly strong second-quarter earnings.
FOR weeks, an unusual Web site linked to the World Cup soccer tournament kept visitors guessing: Could this be real?
The site, FingerSkilz.tv, shows what appear to be close-up videos of a man's hand on a desk, using two fingers to perform soccer tricks with a wadded-up paper ''ball.'' The Brazilian-style handiwork attracted more than 180,000 unique visitors to the site, prompted widespread discussion on blogs and moved imitators to create their own ''fingerball'' videos and post them on the Web.
Advanced Micro Devices' plan to pay $5.4 billion for the graphics chip maker ATI Technologies got a negative reaction from investors and some Wall Street analysts on Monday, though analysts said the purchase would help A.M.D. compete against Intel, its much larger rival.
Hector Ruiz, A.M.D.'s chief executive, defended the deal. ''We are very bullish on the transaction,'' he told analysts in a phone briefing early Monday morning after the company announced the plan. ''We definitely think we are going to leapfrog the competition.''
Growing up on the Upper East Side of Manhattan, Timothy E. Brog had no idea baseball cards had better uses than flipping.
But in the late 1970's, not yet a teenager, he bought a box of about 6,000 baseball cards, including a mint-condition 1967 card of shortstop Maury Wills, for about $90, he said. His father was not pleased, and was surprised when Mr. Brog later sold the collection for several thousand dollars.
Economic growth braked sharply in the second quarter from its blistering pace in the first, as the housing market cooled and consumer spending pulled back, slowing the economy to a more sustainable rate of expansion.
Still, the government also reported brisk inflation in the quarter, underscoring that slower growth has not yet put a check on rising prices.
ONCE upon a time, in a bygone era, a new creature began stalking Wall Street. He was called a ''corporate raider,'' and he made strange utterances that executives had not heard before.
He growled that executives cared more about building empires than building shareholder value. He bought big stakes in bloated, inefficient companies and began demanding -- demanding! -- that chief executives cut loose money-losing units to become more competitive. He insisted that management be paid with stock and options so that they would start caring about the stock price, and would be rewarded as their shareholders were rewarded.
In an abrupt move yesterday, Pfizer named its general counsel, Jeffrey B. Kindler, as chief executive, succeeding Henry A. McKinnell, who had been expected to resign in February 2008.
The move comes amid signs of management turmoil at Pfizer, where three senior executives have been vying for more than a year to succeed Mr. McKinnell as chairman and chief executive. In the last few months, analysts and people in the industry said, Pfizer's board has grown increasingly concerned about Mr. McKinnell's autocratic management style and the company's struggles to bring new drugs to market.
The housing industry -- which largely carried the American economy through the tribulations of the 2000 stock-market crash, a recession and climbing oil prices -- has lost its vigor in recent months and now has begun to bog down the broader economy, which slowed to a modest 2.5 percent growth rate this spring.
That was a sharp comedown from the 5.6 percent growth rate of the first quarter, the Commerce Department reported yesterday, caused in part by the third consecutive quarterly decline in spending on houses and apartment buildings, after several years of rapid growth. [Page C1.]
Alvin Cooperman, whose entertainment achievements included holding high posts at the Shubert Organization, at Madison Square Garden and at NBC television as well as producing on his own, died yesterday in Manhattan. He was 83.
The cause was complications of a severe case of shingles, his wife, Marilyn, said.
The Ford Motor Company, which is struggling to keep its grip on second place in the American car market, said Friday that it would cut by one-fifth the number of vehicles it plans to build in the final three months of the year.
The slowdown represented the deepest production cuts since the industry's crisis of the 1980's. It also underscored the difficulty that Detroit, whose business relies on sales of sport utility vehicles and pickup trucks, is having as gas prices remain around $3 a gallon. Detroit's market share has dropped to its lowest level in history, while Asian brands, known for their fuel efficiency, are setting sales records.
REMEMBER the good old days, when all you had to do to get on an airplane was empty the metal out of your pockets, take off your shoes and maybe submit to a pat-down?
Since Aug. 10, travelers have also faced checkpoint screeners who search for cosmetics and toothpaste, and then, often, a second rank of screeners at the boarding gates. Sometimes these are not even the Transportation Security Administration officers in their try-to-look-professional crisp white shirts, but members of the National Guard in camouflage outfits and heavy boots, who look better equipped for hurricane rescues.
TWO hours before his flight to Los Angeles, Mordechai Cohen lay on his back in the basement of McCarran International Airport in Las Vegas, pumping iron.
Mr. Cohen muscled out one set of bench presses, then another. Around him, other guests at the 24 Hour Fitness gym near Terminals C and D were engaged in similar pursuits -- running on treadmills, bicycling in place, curling dumbbells. It was 8 a.m., when many visitors to Sin City call it a night. For Mr. Cohen, a long day was just beginning.
THE runways, hangars and brick administrative offices are the only things left of Henry Ford's fabled Willow Run Airport, where 8,685 B-24 long-range bombers were built during World War II and 42,000 people were employed, including Rosie the Riveter.
The 64-year-old airfield, 30 miles west of Detroit, seems like the aviation equivalent of Jurassic Park, with its remnants of old cargo planes and what was once the largest bomber factory in the world.
LIKE most other business travelers who publish blogs, Steve Broback discovered their power by accident.
He had reserved a room at the Muse Hotel near Times Square, with the understanding that the rate would include free Internet access. But when he plugged into the high-speed data network, Mr. Broback, a conference organizer from Woodinville, Wash., was asked to pay $9.95 to connect.
INNOVATION has yielded a new crop of lean consumer electronics that are poised to transform how businesspeople do their work without compromising speed, power and function. Here are some useful technologies -- not gadgets or gimmicks -- that will not strain your shoulder or break your bag while you are on the go.
MOUSE -- Despite an inundation of computer pointing and scrolling devices, the mouse still stands as the most popular of them all. But it can't function when it is left behind.
STEVEN M. HANKIN was listening recently to the air-travel woes of the chief executive of a company in the Boston area.
The man told him about a simple business trip he took with three colleagues, from Boston to Atlanta, Sunday to Monday. The trip required 20 hours of combined time in an airplane. ''You know, at some point, as extravagant as it may sound, the practical realities of private jets start to make sense,'' the man said.
Ivan Luini, who, as founder and president of the New York-based Kartell U.S. Inc., helped bring plastic furniture out of the garden and into the American living room, died on Friday in a small-plane crash in Moffat County, Colo., near the Wyoming border. Mr. Luini was 46 and lived in New York City and Sag Harbor, N.Y. Sergio Savarese also died in the crash.
Mr. Luini and Mr. Savarese, avid pilots and good friends, were killed in the crash of a Cirrus SR20, a four-seat, single-engine aircraft that they co-owned and were flying cross-country on a business trip to visit stores, family members said.
Sergio Savarese, a designer known for lyrical shapes and a founder of the furniture store Dialogica, died on Friday in a small-plane crash in Moffat County, Colo., that also took the life of his flying companion, Ivan Luini, according to their families. Mr. Savarese was 48 and lived in Manhattan and Southampton, N.Y.
The two men co-owned a plane registered to East End Aviation in Westhampton Beach, N.Y., and often traveled cross-country, visiting their respective stores, according to family members.
WHAT if the initials H.P. -- as in Hewlett-Packard -- enter the lexicon in the same manner that Google has? Google, of course, has become much more than a corporate name. It now doubles as a catch-all term for online search that has resulted in nifty little verbs like ''Googled,'' ''Googles'' and ''Googling.''
If H.P. undergoes the same sort of metamorphosis and becomes shorthand for illicit snooping, you might be telling your friends that a stalking ex-boyfriend is ''so H.P.'' or that your office mate, who snoops through the stuff on your desk and listens a little too closely to your calls, has ''gone H.P.''
Mike Hernandez has had it with the new offerings of animated movies.
Other than ''Cars,'' the summer hit from Pixar Animation Studios, he would rather watch the re-released animated classic ''The Little Mermaid'' with his 4-year-old daughter, Alicea.
Is the turnaround at General Motors for real?
That is a crucial question the G.M. board must consider when it meets today. G.M.'s biggest investor, Kirk Kerkorian, clearly disagrees with management's assertion that the company is well on its way to recovery.
For decades, a humble blue smock or vest has been required dress for employees at Wal-Mart Stores, conveying the retailer's working-class image and its modest roots in rural Bentonville, Ark.
But a fancier Wal-Mart, which is now trying to attract upscale shoppers with 300-thread-count sheets, flat-screen televisions and nine-layer lasagna, calls for a fancier uniform.
The New York Stock Exchange has quietly pushed back a plan that would prevent brokers from voting their clients' shares in board elections when the stockholders have given no voting instructions of their own.
The plan, which was announced with fanfare in June, was supposed to go into effect in time for next spring's shareholder meeting season. It would have halted a practice that helps entrench board members, critics say, because brokerage firms always vote for directors proposed by company management.
It had been an uneventful, comfortable flight.
With the window shade drawn, I was relaxing in my leather seat aboard a $25 million corporate jet that was flying 37,000 feet above the vast Amazon rainforest. The 7 of us on board the 13-passenger jet were keeping to ourselves.
Just over a year ago, the man who held the purse strings at a private company outside San Francisco began negotiating a new employment contract with the executive who ran the day-to-day operations.
The company had recently turned around, thanks in part to the executive, and the company, understandably, wanted to keep him. It offered him a salary of almost $1 million a year, which it considered in line with the market.
Richard A. Smith is quick to point to the Spartan lodgings of Realogy as evidence that running the largest real estate broker in the nation is no cushy assignment.
The company's headquarters, which are rented, are in a nondescript office park in Parsippany, N.J. Mr. Smith, the vice chairman and president, inhabits a modest corner room that has none of the wood-paneled finery common to corporate executive suites.
When the hedge fund Archeus Capital opened to investors in 2003, it did so with high hopes and a glittering trading pedigree. Its co-founder, Gary K. Kilberg, was one of the aggressive Salomon Brothers bond traders memorialized in ''Liar's Poker.''
By 2005, investors, enamored of its complex trading strategies, had poured $3 billion into the fund. Within a year, however, some bad bets and administrative troubles resulted in a spate of investor withdrawals and its funds shrank. Now, its assets are down to $682 million, several partners have left and its return for the year is a negative 1.9 percent, making Archeus the latest hedge fund to fall from its gilded perch.
Gary C. Comer, who as founder of the mail-order apparel company Lands' End printed a glossy catalog in the 1960's that became a prototype of the magazinelike catalogs of today, died Wednesday at his home in Chicago. He was 78.
The cause was cancer, a company spokeswoman, Michele Casper, said.
Ryanair Holdings, the low-fare airline based in Ireland, started a 1.48 billion euro ($1.88 billion) hostile bid for a rival, the Aer Lingus Group, in a move that could bring the budget carrier to the United States.
The deal would propel Ryanair outside of its growing European footprint and across the Atlantic to the 11 cities in the United States that Aer Lingus serves, as well as to Dubai, where it would go head-to-head with other long-distance carriers.
ConocoPhillips said Thursday that it would combine ownership of two of its refineries in Texas with Canadian oil sands properties controlled by the oil and gas producer EnCana. The two partners also agreed to invest more than $10 billion over the next decade to expand the joint venture's production.
The deal ends EnCana's long search for a partner to process the heavy tar, or bitumen, it extracts from surrounding rock and sand by injecting high-pressure steam into wells. But the decision to send more of that material to the United States for processing may prove unpopular in the company's home province, Alberta.
How much credit should Carleton S. Fiorina get for the recent recovery of Hewlett-Packard?
Plenty, Ms. Fiorina says in her new book, ''Tough Choices.''
Patricia C. Dunn, the former Hewlett-Packard chairwoman, made her first court appearance on Thursday after being charged in connection with a spying operation at the company.
Ms. Dunn, who surrendered voluntarily in exchange for the withdrawal of an arrest warrant against her, was booked on four felony charges at the Santa Clara County Sheriff's Department. She agreed to return to court for an arraignment hearing on Nov. 17.
Even by the frothy standards of the housing boom, it was a great deal.
On May 18, 2005, a small Indiana company bought 184 duplex homes in a down-and-out neighborhood in northeast Indianapolis for an average price of $50,000 each.
For more than a decade, Dmitri V. Lisitsyn waged a lonely, losing battle to protect the local salmon and gray whales from the world's large oil companies, which are turning bucolic Sakhalin Island into an industrial hub for energy in Asia.
Now, Mr. Lisitsyn suddenly has the full support of an unlikely environmental champion: the Russian government.
HOW to make your money last forever is the cover article in this month's Kiplinger's Personal Finance. And Money. And Smart Money.
In what may be a first -- or at the very least an extremely rare event -- each of the financial advice publications at exactly the same time devotes scores of pages to ''how to make money last a lifetime.''
''SO how did I get here, defending the killing of God's creatures?'' the celebrity chef Anthony Bourdain asks plaintively. The creatures, in this case, are ducks.
The man he's asking, a fellow celebrity chef, Michael Ruhlman, is sympathetic, but he can't help but throw in a few zingers, as when he asks Mr. Bourdain, ''So, are you just off on another of your bobble-head-doll rants?''
I STEPPED into a simulated sidewalk mugging between nasty-looking guys, each of whom outweighed me by over 40 pounds. The only way I knew how to defend myself was by mimicking the comedian Jack Benny. I placed the palm of my left hand on my chin, and cupped my right hand underneath my left elbow, affecting a look of meekness.
Then the lights went out. The guy on the left went for me, and I went wild. I stabbed my left hand at his throat, karate-chop style. I jabbed my right hand at his face, palm open, fingers clawing for his eyes. I jerked my right knee toward his groin, screaming at the top of my lungs.
STOCKS shattered records. Corporate profits soared. Economists waxed about a so-called Goldilocks economy -- not too hot, not too cold. Sound familiar? That was the siren song of the 1990's economic boom, and there was an eerie echo on Wall Street this week.
The only thing missing this time was the mirth. A wary sense of relief greeted a record for blue-chip stocks. Robust profit reports came with warnings of weak numbers to come. A fingers-crossed optimism underpinned economic forecasts.
For American workers, the job market is starting to look a lot less inviting.
The Labor Department reported yesterday that employment grew by just 51,000 jobs in September, adding slack job growth to the emerging tableau of an economy gradually slowed by higher interest rates, expensive energy and a sputtering housing sector.
The high-risk, high-return venture capital business may have turned into all risk and no return.
That, in a nutshell, is the message that a prominent venture firm delivered yesterday to its investors when it told them that it could not continue to take their money -- at least not for the time being.
It was the kind of shadowy, secret Washington meeting that Bob Woodward is fond of describing in detail. In his new book, ''State of Denial,'' he writes that on Nov. 29, 2001, a dozen policy makers, Middle East experts and members of influential policy research organizations gathered in Virginia at the request of Paul D. Wolfowitz, then the deputy secretary of defense. Their objective was to produce a report for President Bush and his cabinet outlining a strategy for dealing with Afghanistan and the Middle East in the aftermath of 9/11.
What was more unusual, Mr. Woodward reveals, was the presence of journalists at the meeting. Fareed Zakaria, the editor of Newsweek International and a Newsweek columnist, and Robert D. Kaplan, now a national correspondent for The Atlantic Monthly, attended the meeting and, according to Mr. Kaplan, signed confidentiality agreements not to discuss what happened.
What if the candy maker Mars could come up with an additive to the coating of its M&M's and Skittles that would keep them fresher longer and inhibit melting? Or if scientists at Unilever could shrink the fat particles (and thereby the calories) in premium ice cream without sacrificing its taste and feel?
These ideas are still laboratory dreams. The common thread in these research projects and in product development at many other food companies is nanotechnology, the name for a growing number of techniques for manipulating matter in dimensions as small as single molecules.
Valley County, not far from the center of Nebraska, seemed to be one of those Great Plains communities that was dying. From World War II to 2000 it had lost almost half its population, and the decline was gathering speed at the end of the century. The I.G.A. and Jack & Jill grocery stores closed, as did most mom and pop gas stations and the local dairy processing plant.
In the last five years, though, something utterly unexpected has happened. The decline has stopped. More people are moving to Ord, the county seat, than leaving, and the county's population is likely to show its first increase this decade since the 1920's.
At first glance down the assembly line at BMW's plant here, it's almost impossible to tell the new Minis from the newer Minis.
Even the workers have to glance at television screens, which show each car in every color. On a recent Saturday, a black Mini Cooper S was followed by a red convertible and finally by a bright ochre Mini that was the latest version for 2007. Only its headlights and its slightly bigger size set it off from its siblings.
Two rival leveraged buyout firms make bids for the same company. At the 11th hour, one firm drops out of the auction, unwilling to pay more.
The remaining buyout firm is declared the winner. A month later, another company is put up for sale -- only this time the two firms that had just been fierce competitors have teamed up to bid together for it.
As Google whips out its fat wallet to buy the video site YouTube, it is making Yahoo look even more out of step with the fast-changing Internet advertising market.
Yahoo itself tried to buy YouTube just a few weeks ago and got as close as negotiating price and terms, according to an executive briefed on the discussions. But the talks broke down, and Google swooped in and closed the deal quickly, just as it has in several recent partnership negotiations. Indeed, many Internet executives are noting just how often Yahoo appears to be late and slow, both in its own business and in negotiations with other companies.
Bob Dylan has always been famously anti-establishment, but there he was in late August, strumming his guitar in a commercial for iTunes and iPod, both owned by Apple Computer.
Mr. Dylan does not suffer from a lack of name recognition and he probably does not need the extra money. But like an increasing number of A-list celebrities, he has come to see doing television spots as a good move.
''The market for downloadable books will grow by 400 percent in each of the next two years, to over $25 billion by 2008,'' predicted the keynote speaker at the 2001 Women's National Book Association meeting. ''Within a few years after the end of this decade, e-books will be the preponderant delivery format for book content.''
Whoops.
Menomonee Falls, Wis., is a long way from New York's garment district. And for a long time, the discount retailer Kohl's was happy to keep its distance.
But finding trendy clothing designers near the company's Midwestern home proved challenging and the one big name in fashion the chain had lured, Vera Wang, was not eager to repeatedly fly to Wisconsin to create a line of clothing.
Maybe the sputtering housing market will not be that big of a drag on the economy after all.
Falling gas prices are leaving Americans with more money to spend, and inflation has become less of a threat in recent weeks, according to a report released yesterday by the Federal Reserve.
She doesn't remember.
Peter E. Bacanovic, his gall rising, could not believe it. But there it was in print. ''I honestly don't remember exactly what I was prosecuted for,'' Martha Stewart is quoted as saying in the September issue of Harper's Bazaar.
A giant stuffed SpongeBob SquarePants is perched against the window of Cyma Zarghami's corner office at Nickelodeon Television overlooking the Hudson River, its blue eyes staring out and puffy arms drooped by its side.
The stuffed icon in the president's office is an appropriately oversize reminder of just how important SpongeBob has been to Nickelodeon, the children's network that was started by Viacom in 1979.
Last Wednesday, I was working late but left the office in time to watch the second episode of ABC's ''Lost.'' But when I got home and booted the computer to check messages before hitting the couch, I happened to notice one of my twin daughters at a far-flung Big 10 campus was live on Yahoo! Messenger.
I clicked on ''View my Webcam,'' as did Erin, a freshman at the University of Wisconsin, and suddenly I had the chance to inspect the disturbingly large ring she recently had implanted in her lip. Live video may seem straight out of the Jetsons, but I have the computing skills of Fred Flintstone. Still, between my PC and my daughter's Mac, we managed to get a serviceable video chat going, assisted by speakerphones on cells.
The tremendously rich are different not only from you and me but also from the merely rich. For one thing, some of them have really nice airplanes.
This is not about the presumed titans of the private jet universe like the mighty Gulfstream G5's or Global Expresses, whose occupants can leap continents and oceans at high speed and in plush comfort, without all the inconveniences of commercial airports, airline schedules and, well, strangers.
When Stephen J. Hemsley joined UnitedHealth Group after 23 years with the accounting firm Arthur Andersen, he was greeted with a grant of 400,000 stock options dated shortly after he started in June 1997.
There was just one thing: the options carried a stock price based on the market price five months earlier, when he did not yet work for UnitedHealth, one of the largest health insurers in the country. The difference in dates effectively created a built-in gain of $7.26 for every share.
It seemed like a simple enough idea: Why not try to track whether people watch TV commercials?
After all, Nielsen Media Research has been counting how many people watch certain TV shows for decades. So, in June, the ratings agency announced it would start rating commercials, beginning in November.
Every day in cities like this one, Chinese factories churn out waves of exports that flood markets in the United States and Europe: DVD's, microwave ovens, furniture, washing machines, shoes and more.
So it is no surprise that as China's industrial revolution advances, Western automakers and their workers have begun to worry seriously that an invasion of Chinese cars will begin soon.
The Chicago Mercantile Exchange and the Chicago Board of Trade, longtime fierce competitors, said Tuesday that they would merge in an $8 billion deal creating the largest market for financial derivatives contracts in the world.
The transaction would be the latest in a wave of mergers among the leading financial exchanges, as they transform themselves from member-owned clubs to for-profit companies competing in markets that have become increasingly global and electronic.
Shortly before he moved to Greece last year, an American named John Econopouly received the unpleasant news that he needed a hernia operation. He had the surgery done in Northern California, and it didn't go so well.
After spending less than a day in the hospital as an outpatient, Mr. Econopouly went to a friend's house to sleep off the surgery and found that his wound had reopened. ''I woke up in a pool of blood and didn't know what to do,'' he remembered. ''Basically, I didn't feel cared for.''
There's nothing quite as embarrassing as a grown-up trying too hard to look young and hip. A youthful attitude is one thing, but some haircuts, dance moves and jeans sizes just aren't well suited for middle-age paunches and hairlines.
It's not much better watching adult corporations try to attract young, hip consumers by pretending to be one of them. Take Sony, for example; this month, it joins a long line of buttoned-up corporations that eye the MySpace/iPod generation with dollar signs in their eyes.
It has a population of a million. The ''people'' there make friends, build homes and run businesses. They also play sports, watch movies and do a lot of other familiar things. They even have their own currency, convertible into American dollars.
But residents also fly around, walk underwater and make themselves look beautiful, or like furry animals, dragons, or practically anything -- or anyone -- they wish.
It looks like a business and, in many ways, acts like one. But it is beyond the reach of most of the rules and government oversight that apply to businesses -- because it is a church mission.
This is the ''medical bill sharing ministry'' known as Christian Care Ministry, based in Melbourne, Fla., the largest of a handful of similar ministries around the country.
General Motors liked the idea of using the sun to power its buildings. But until recently, one immutable economic fact held G.M. back: The upfront costs were simply too high to justify the ultimate payoff.
G.M. is not alone. Even solar energy's biggest fans concede that the high investment costs have kept companies from pursuing what is arguably the cleanest, most renewable and least politically sensitive energy source around.
In August, Peter A. Darbee, chairman, chief executive and president of PG&E, owner of Pacific Gas and Electric, broke rank with his peers by supporting a measure in California that would reduce greenhouse gas emissions, which are widely blamed for global warming. Mr. Darbee discussed his decision and other initiatives in an interview on a recent visit to New York. Following are excerpts:
Q. Why do you support California's Global Warming Solutions Act, which will require utilities and other companies to make their operations even more energy efficient?
Rupert Murdoch won a crucial round yesterday in his continuing joust with John C. Malone when shareholders of the News Corporation approved a poison pill takeover defense that will help Mr. Murdoch keep his rival at bay.
The vote could also improve Mr. Murdoch's leverage in talks over sending News Corporation's controlling stake in DirecTV, the satellite television service, to Mr. Malone's Liberty Media Corporation in exchange for Liberty's 19 percent holding of News Corporation's voting shares.
The new owners of three former Knight Ridder newspapers announced layoffs, expected layoffs and abrupt changes in management yesterday as they painted a bleak outlook for the newspaper industry.
The San Jose Mercury News said it planned to lay off 101 people from its work force of 1,260 employees. The cuts are to include 40 workers from the 280-member newsroom.
Tata Steel's $7.7 billion acquisition of the London-based Corus Group may be the largest foreign deal by an Indian company, but Tata plans to continue growing, its chairman said.
In an interview on Friday in London, Ratan N. Tata, the 68-year-old chairman, who is credited with turning Tata into a global powerhouse, said the company's next moves include some far-flung markets.
GOOD week for the stock market. Not so for the man who used to run it.
The Dow Jones industrial average closed above 12,000 for the first time on Thursday, the same day that a New York judge ordered the former head of the New York Stock Exchange to return most of his fiercely contested retirement package.
The billionaire investor Carl C. Icahn appears to be gaining effective control of the board of ImClone Systems even before shareholders of the biotechnology company finish voting on his proposal to oust four directors.
Yesterday, ImClone said that Dr. Peter S. Liebert, an ally of Mr. Icahn, had been named a director of the company. It also said that Mr. Icahn would become the chairman of a board committee searching for a new chief executive.
The medical community is having second thoughts about stents.
Tiny metal sleeves placed in arteries to keep blood flowing, stents have become such a popular quick fix for clogged coronary vessels that Americans will receive more than 1.5 million of them this year.
EARLY in the first e-commerce boom, there was a widespread idea that shoes just didn't fit in. No one wanted to buy shoes online, the thinking went, because getting a pair to fit is tricky and no one wants the expense and hassle of returning shoes through the mail.
That conventional wisdom was upended by Zappos.com, the online shoe seller based in Las Vegas that opened for business in 1999. Sales for the privately held company are on track to reach $600 million, up from $370 million last year, according to Alfred Lin, the company's chairman and chief financial officer.
They call it the ''Johnny Carson attack,'' for his comic pose as a psychic divining the contents of an envelope.
Tom Heydt-Benjamin tapped an envelope against a black plastic box connected to his computer. Within moments, the screen showed a garbled string of characters that included this: fu/kevine, along with some numbers.
THE tragically backward, sometimes absurdist hallmarks of North Korea and its leader, Kim Jong-il, are well known. There is Mr. Kim's Elton John eyeglasses and strangely whipped, cotton-candy hairdo. And there is the North Korean ''No! Yeeesssss  No! O.K. Fear the tiger!'' school of diplomacy.
A newer, more dangerous sort of North Korean eccentricity registered around 4.0 on the Richter scale earlier this month -- a nuclear weapon test that has had the world's major powers scrambling, right up through last week, to develop a policy script that would account for Mr. Kim's new toy.
Garth H. Drabinsky, the Canadian producer of ''The Phantom of the Opera'' and ''Ragtime,'' plans to start a new reality TV show called ''Triple Sensation,'' which aims to seek out young stars who can sing, act and dance.
One thing is for certain for the show: it won't include any field trips to Broadway. That is because Mr. Drabinsky has been a fugitive from American justice since failing to appear at a federal court in New York in 1999 on fraud charges related to the bankruptcy of his company, Livent. If he crosses the border, he could be arrested.
In many ways, the economy has not looked so good in a long time.
The price of gas at the pump has tumbled since midsummer. Unemployment has fallen to its lowest level in more than five years. On Wall Street, the Dow Jones industrial average has finally returned to its glory days of the late 1990's, setting records almost daily.
Many cows, pigs and chickens will soon be living cushier lives.
But in the end, they will still be headed for the dinner plate.
The Ford Motor Company reported its worst financial results in more than 14 years Monday and warned that its business was likely to worsen further in the months ahead, as it and other Detroit auto companies struggle to reinvent themselves.
Indeed, the new chief executive at Ford, Alan R. Mulally, a former Boeing executive, said the automaker would require a full transformation in the way it thought about consumers and approached the American market.
One of Hollywood's top five talent agencies has created an online unit devoted to scouting out up-and-coming creators of Internet content -- particularly video -- and finding work for them in Web-based advertising and entertainment, as well as in the older media.
The move by the United Talent Agency -- best known as the home of comedians like Vince Vaughn and Jack Black, filmmakers like M. Night Shyamalan and television producers like Dick Wolf and David Chase -- amounts to a bet, albeit a modest one, that Web video is on a growth curve similar to that of cable television a generation ago. It is also a return by Hollywood's core talent representatives to the sort of new-media business they tested, without great success, at the peak of the dot-com boom.
How does the nation's largest home improvement retailer weather the worst housing market in a decade?
With a pack of cigarettes, a cup of coffee and an inflatable Halloween decoration.
In the early months of 1935, this newspaper ran a series of editorials warning about a grave threat to the American economy. The Social Security plan being pushed by Franklin D. Roosevelt was ''a bad bill,'' the editorials said, that would become an enormous burden on American companies and might be unconstitutional to boot.
Many Congressional Republicans and business executives agreed, predicting that the bill's new payroll taxes would short-circuit the economy's recovery from the Great Depression. With all this criticism, the bill's fate seemed uncertain. On March 21, the editorial page of The New York Times approvingly quoted a news report saying that the bill's prospects were ''diminishing daily.''
Nearly four decades ago, South Vietnamese leaders mapped out their battle plans inside the presidential palace here. When they lost the war, the palace became the base for the Ho Chi Minh City People's Committee, which worked to impose tight Communist control.
But in September it was the scene of a very different gathering: a board meeting of the Hongkong and Shanghai Bank.
Who is the highest-paid chief executive in America?
Every spring, not long after the Academy Awards, the business media tear open their own envelopes to announce who has won the pay title for the previous year.
Want to have some real fun the next time you're in a room with geeks and gadget freaks? Here are two words that when uttered aloud will not only get their attention, but set off hyperventilation, pupil dilation and drooling: ''Apple phone.''
The Web has been rife with bogus rumors of an Apple cellphone since 2004, and each ridiculous ''leak'' or faked ''photo'' sets off a torrent of fruitless discussion, speculation and hysteria.
The Mays family, which built Clear Channel Communications into the country's largest network of radio stations through decades of acquisitions, is in negotiations to be taken private by a consortium of investors for more than $18.5 billion, people involved in the talks said yesterday.
The investors, who have been in discussions with Clear Channel for months, include Providence Equity Partners, the Blackstone Group and Kohlberg Kravis Roberts & Company, these people said.
At a black-tie event this summer, some of the world's most powerful bankers and business executives gathered for a toast: ''We are the international finance and business capital of the world, the world's greatest global financial center, without question,'' the mayor told the assembled crowd.
But that was not Michael R. Bloomberg talking. The city was not New York -- it was London.
Humor may not be the best medicine. But it can be a great way to voice anger without admitting hostility.
As companies stew over the changing world of auditing after the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, auditors are being privately vilified for charging too much money while refusing to provide enough service. The following mythical disclosure has begun to circulate. (Anyone wishing to claim authorship should step forward.)
MAYBE it is workers who are from Mars and bosses who are from Venus.
Writing about a survey of nearly 3,000 adults that was conducted by Randstad, an international staffing agency, Kathy Gurchiek in HR Magazine reports that employers simply don't have a clue about how employees feel.
ROBUST corporate profits and flagging inflation propelled the stock market to new heights, but economic news on the ground was not as encouraging. Automakers said they lost billions of dollars in the third quarter, unemployment claims spiked and the housing market slowed faster than expected.
In Houston, a federal judge closed the books on the decade's defining business scandal by sending a former corporate executive to federal prison for more than two decades and stripping him of his fortune.
New video game consoles from Sony and Nintendo will soon join Microsoft's year-old Xbox 360 on store shelves. Most of the microprocessor chips that animate the three machines are being made not in Asia but in a factory here, surrounded by woods, 70 miles north of Midtown Manhattan.
Inside, the factory is filled with hundreds of chip-making tools that are fed by plastic pods, riding on overhead tracks and carrying pristine silicon wafers, in an elaborate symphony of production.
When Jim Clark started Shutterfly, the online photo printing service, in December 1999, a 2-megapixel digital camera could set you back $800, investor enthusiasm for e-commerce was soaring and the words ''Internet'' and ''bust'' were rarely used in the same sentence.
For his part, Mr. Clark had something of a Midas reputation when it came to technology investing, having started Silicon Graphics, Netscape and Healtheon.
When Barry Diller hired longtime television and film executive Michael Jackson as programming president at the IAC/InterActiveCorp, he had to reassure investors that he was not going back into the entertainment business.
IAC is an Internet company, after all, and Internet companies promise higher growth than media businesses typically deliver. But could Mr. Diller resist his past? Hollywood dominates his résumé, and Mr. Jackson had worked for him previously, overseeing the USA Network and the Sci-Fi Channel, among other TV and film ventures.
Who would boast that their wares are the world's most expensive? Those selling to a select class of Russians.
Rich ones.
A couple of years ago, Robert E. Rubin -- éminence grise at Citigroup and the Democratic Party's economic wise man -- decided that the United States dollar was headed for a fall.
This view put Mr. Rubin in good company. Nearly everyone who spends time thinking about the American economy believes that the value of the dollar has to fall at some point.
Most customers at the Anthropologie store in SoHo come for the delicately woven knits and the ultrafeminine floral dresses. But these days at least some are coming for the books.
Last Sunday the merchandise and books were coordinated with near-perfect precision. Resting beside a black sweater ($68) and a jet-black skirt with orange embellishments ($118) were copies of Annie Leibovitz's ''A Photographer's Life: 1990-2005,'' big and black and gleaming, for $75. A pop-up book called ''One Red Dot'' echoed a display of polka-dotted canvas sneakers, while another title, ''The Persistence of Yellow,'' perfectly matched a strategically positioned yellow knit sweater.
Ginger Stickel, like most Americans, has been getting a lot more junk mail these days. Yesterday, for example, she received 37 pieces of mail, and 28 were junk, including a pitch for mail-order pizzas and a flier for a warehouse furniture sale. Surprisingly, she says she doesn't mind.
''I would rather get a catalogue over a call during dinner 10 times over,'' Ms. Stickel, a mother of two young children in Greenwich, Conn., said. ''I always open those letters, and sometimes they're useful.''
If you operate a small business, you might already use technology to conceal just how small you are -- by setting up multiple e-mail addresses and phone extensions, for example (''for Asian operations, press 7'').
Unfortunately, the illusion that you're a big, competent corporation evaporates the minute you reveal your Web address -- and it's http://hometown.aol.com/CaseyCorp/myhomepage/index.html.
Farmers do not see fast money very often. But with big profits gushing forth from ethanol plants, dozens of Wall Street bankers, in loafers and suits, have been descending on the cornfields of the Midwest promising to make thousands of farmers rich overnight.
Most of them, though, are proving surprisingly reluctant to cash in.
Now playing: Tom Cruise, the sequel.
The film star, who took a beating when Paramount ended his longstanding production deal last summer, has found not just a home, but a new career direction that could point the way for expensive actors who are struggling in cost-conscious Hollywood.
In a huge pit, gigantic bulldozers and earth-moving machines are removing two layers of coal, the last shavings in a monumental task that has dug 200 feet down and expanded across 20 square miles over the last 35 years.
The coal feeds two plants nearby that help keep the lights on and the air-conditioners humming throughout Texas. But in doing so, the operation has released hundreds of millions of tons of carbon dioxide, the main contributor to global warming.
Until recently, this fast-growing area was a paradise on earth for home builders. Fulton Homes' developments, for example, were so popular last year that it was able to raise prices on its new homes by $1,000 to $10,000 almost every week.
''People were standing in line for lotteries,'' recalled Douglas S. Fulton, president of the company, one of the largest private builders in the Phoenix area. And they were ''camping overnight begging to be the next number in the next lot in the next house.''
Every 17 seconds, a small armada of ships trawling 130 miles from the Louisiana coast fire powerful air guns toward the bottom of the sea in a hunt for the next big oil discovery.
The Neptune and three other ships are on a three-month mission to map one of the most remote regions of the United States. The data they collect from the vibrations set off by the guns in the gulf's deepest waters will help engineers form a picture of some of the world's newest petroleum prospects.
Nearly three years ago, someone claiming to be the wife of the hedge fund manager David Einhorn contacted his phone company and, using his wife's Social Security number, opened an online account.
The caller directed the phone company to send copies of Mr. Einhorn's home telephone bills to an AOL account, according to letters written by Mr. Einhorn that he provided to The New York Times.
Maybe Washington can get something done after all.
Democrats may have won big on Tuesday, but the lawmakers who will soon oversee tax, trade and economic issues on Capitol Hill are trying not to sound confrontational -- or even to crow.
David Geffen spends more time schmoozing with an elite cadre of journalists than just about any other mogul in Hollywood.
The billionaire often invites them to his sprawling estate in the heart of Beverly Hills, where De Koonings and Pollocks hang on the walls. In September, his guest was Leo Wolinsky, a managing editor of The Los Angeles Times, and they broached the delicate question of whether Mr. Geffen might try to buy the struggling newspaper.
When Seth J. Sternberg and two colleagues started Meebo, a Web-based instant-messaging service, they didn't go looking for venture capitalists. Using their credit cards, they financed the company themselves to the tune of $2,000 apiece. It was enough to cover their biggest expense -- leasing a few computer servers at $120 a month each.
Within a month of its introduction in September 2005, Meebo was getting as many as 50,000 log-ins a day, and it needed more servers. It decided to take a modest $100,000 from three angel investors, wealthy individuals who typically contribute small amounts but do not get involved in management decisions.
Robert B. McCurry, who invented the concept of cash rebates while an executive at Chrysler and later became one of the most prominent Americans at a Japanese car company, died Monday at his home in Rehoboth Beach, Del. He was 83.
The cause was complications of prostate cancer, said Joseph Tetherow, a spokesman at Toyota Motor Sales, where Mr. McCurry retired as vice chairman in 1992.
Experts in the realms of sports marketing, corporate identity and brand building are offering sharply divergent views of the value of the huge deal that will name the new ballpark of the New York Mets for Citigroup.
The agreement, announced formally yesterday, will label the Mets' new stadium, scheduled to open in spring 2009, Citi Field. The current ballpark, Shea Stadium, is named after William A. Shea, a lawyer who helped bring National League baseball back to New York after the Dodgers and Giants left for the West Coast.
PREMIUM-CABIN IMPROVEMENTS -- Upping the ante once again in premium-class cabin luxury, British Airways introduced in London yesterday what it called its ''next-generation business-class flat-bed.'' The new bed in British Air's Club World business class is 25 percent wider than the current beds. The newly designed seats fold out to a six-foot-long bed, and have redesigned locker and storage spaces. The new amenity, which will cost about $100 million, will be on the first aircraft by the end of this month, and will be rolled out through the long-haul fleet of 57 Boeing 747's and 43 Boeing 777's within 18 months. Business-class capacity will also be increased. ''Our premium cabins are our most profitable segment, and we are reconfiguring our aircraft to increase ClubWorld capacity by 9 percent, moving from 38 to 52 seats on some of our Boeing 747 aircraft,'' said Willie Walsh, the chief executive. Last month, Singapore Airlines announced a $360 million improvement project for its Boeing 777-300ER long-haul fleet. It said certain features of those cabins would be incorporated into the long-delayed A380 superjumbo aircraft, which Singapore will be the first to fly once deliveries begin.
LOCKING CHECKED BAGS -- More than 70 percent of adult air travelers are not aware they can lock their checked bags, according to a new study. The number of checked bags has risen by as much as 30 percent after security restrictions about carrying on gels, liquids and other substances went into effect in August. The study, by Harris Interactive, was commissioned by Travel Sentry, a company that developed a standard system for bag combination locks that can be opened only by their owners or by government inspectors with master keys. There are various versions of the government-approved locks, either free-standing or incorporated into baggage, being sold at more than 100 retail distributors, Travel Sentry says. A competitor, Safe Skies, also markets a line of government-approved locks.
As dawn peeled open the sky above a wholesale market here, piles of fruits and vegetables destined for India's fancy new supermarkets were inching toward death.
Lettuce and carrots lay in sludge. In the loading area, traders did their morning ablutions, rinsing their mouths and spitting on the tarmac. Yards away, men unbuckled to urinate. Insects danced in the puddles.
Arcelor Mittal, the steel giant based in Luxembourg, said Monday that a Dutch foundation would not let it sell the Canadian steel maker Dofasco to a rival, ThyssenKrupp of Germany.
If the foundation does not change its position, Arcelor Mittal will have to sell one of its two operations in the United States to address antitrust concerns. It may also face action from ThyssenKrupp.
HERE is the way flying is now:
''This is illegal!'' the airport screener barked at Zelda R. Stern. He was holding up a container of cottage cheese he had spotted in her carry-on.
More than six months ago, Paul J. Salem of Providence Equity Partners made a pitch to Randall T. Mays, his old classmate from Harvard Business School.
Mr. Salem, a senior managing director of the investment firm, proposed that the Mays family consider a leveraged buyout of the company it had built: Clear Channel Communications, the nation's largest radio broadcaster.
The Small Business Administration announced new rules yesterday intended to help small businesses obtain more federal contracts and to assure that contracts set aside for small businesses are not going to larger companies.
The new rules will require small businesses to recertify their size when they are purchased by or merged with a larger business, or at the end of the five-year point of a contract.
NEVER stand when you can sit, and never pass up a chance to go to the bathroom.
It's the kind of oft-repeated advice that New Yorkers find useless. In Manhattan, chances to get rid of that morning coffee are few and far between.
O. J. Simpson, who was acquitted 11 years ago in the 1994 death of his former wife, Nicole Brown Simpson, and her friend Ronald L. Goldman has written a book and will appear on television telling ''how he would have committed the murders if he were the one responsible,'' his publisher and the Fox television network said on Tuesday.
Judith Regan, whose publishing imprint ReganBooks will release Mr. Simpson's book Nov. 30, also conducted the television interviews, which will be broadcast on Fox in two one-hour segments on Nov. 27 and Nov. 29. Both ReganBooks and Fox are owned by the News Corporation.
A federal judge has indefinitely postponed the trial of former employees of the accounting firm KPMG in a criminal tax shelter case, citing concerns that the defendants will not be able to pay their lawyers.
The judge also hinted at sanctions against the prosecution for pressuring the firm to stop paying the defendants' legal fees. Any sanctions could have a major impact on the way white-collar criminal cases are handled in the future.
Prospects for Congressional approval of several free trade bills backed by the administration were thrown into doubt Tuesday when House Republican leaders abruptly withdrew the one aimed at Vietnam on the eve of President Bush's trip there this week.
The failure of the Vietnam bill was a deep disappointment and embarrassment for the White House, which had hoped that the president would hail its passage as a milestone in improvement in relations with a country where tens of thousands of Americans died more than 30 years ago.
A coalition of business and education groups is making a renewed push to persuade Congress to raise the number of skilled foreign workers allowed into the United States this year.
The coalition, which calls itself Compete America and whose members are drawn heavily from the technology industry, sent a letter to every member of Congress on Monday calling for an increase in both the number of so-called H-1B visas, which are used by skilled immigrants and the number of employment-based green cards given to foreign workers.
By the time the crowd began arriving in Rockefeller Center last Wednesday for the big auction at Christie's, rain had already been falling in New York for 19 consecutive hours. It was one of those blustery rains for which umbrellas were no match, so the assembled art lovers were left to peel off their damp overcoats in Christie's lobby and wait in a long coat-check line.
Once inside, a few hundred of the attendees were shunted off to one of two side rooms, where they would watch the auction on a video screen, because the 750 seats in the main room -- the James Christie Room -- weren't nearly enough for the crowd.
Randy Falco, the president of the NBC Universal Television Group, is in talks to leave his position as the No. 2 executive at the television group to take a senior operating role at AOL, Time Warner's Internet subsidiary, according to executives briefed on the move.
The move to shake up the top ranks of the two big media companies is expected to be announced as soon as this week. But it was unclear last night, the executives said, whether Mr. Falco, 52, would hold the title of president or chief executive at AOL, and what position Jonathan F. Miller, AOL's chairman and chief executive, would maintain after the move.
Say what you will about US Airways, but don't write it off.
In the last four years, it has filed for bankruptcy twice, lost business to low-fare airlines that moved aggressively into its backyard and entered a merger that critics said would not work.
Toyota's approach to the pickup truck market has always been cautious, dipping a toe in the market with small trucks, then bringing out slightly bigger models that its own executives acknowledged were meek.
Even when it built its first American truck plant last decade in Indiana, Toyota did not make a complete commitment, dividing the assembly line between pickups, minivans and sport utility vehicles.
From the modest cubicles inside Macy's headquarters in Cincinnati to the spacious corner offices at Saks Fifth Avenue in Manhattan, merchants are beginning to discuss something virtually unheard-of in the American department store industry: a comeback.
After four decades of decline, said Myron E. Ullman, the chief executive of J. C. Penney, ''The department store has become a destination again.''
Synergy drove the worst transaction in media industry history, so the S-word does not come up much these days at Time Warner.
But even as the concept has been left for dead, it is being put into practice, albeit in diminutive ways, at the current version of the company.
Not so long ago, companies that borrowed lots of money were considered risky, appropriate only for daredevil stock pickers. Those with lots of cash on hand and few outstanding debts might be dull stocks, but they were at least safe bets for bondholders.
That view has now been turned on its head.
A few years back, the online grocery business was just about the perfect symbol of the dot-com bust.
A company called Webvan had gone public in 1999, promising to reinvent the $500 billion supermarket industry -- retail's largest sector -- by quickly opening high-tech warehouses across the country. With Louis Borders, the bookstore mogul, as its founder and George Shaheen, the former chief executive of Andersen Consulting, as its day-to-day boss, Webvan looked like the real thing.
When Google's shares nearly doubled in the first few months after its initial public offering, Mark Mahaney decided it was time for his clients to take advantage of the fervor that had built up around the company. He advised them to sell Google shares and put the money into Yahoo.
''I thought the stock was a little expensive,'' said Mr. Mahaney, an analyst then for American Technology Research and now for Citigroup. ''It turns out that was a terrible call.''
For years, Olivier Piou angled for a merger with his No. 1 rival. Mr. Piou was chief executive of Axalto, a French company that was the world leader in smart cards, the chip-embedded cards used for purposes like banking, phone calls or identification.
There were occasional chats with Alex Mandl, the chief executive of his French rival, Gemplus International, but nothing happened.
Want to get an early start on the holiday shopping season?
You can, at midnight.
Air France-KLM, Europe's biggest airline, said Thursday that it had begun talks that could eventually lead to the takeover of Alitalia, the Italian carrier.
Alitalia, which is half-owned by the Italian government, is actively looking for a partner. But analysts see any deal as uncertain as long as the company continues to lose money. The stock of both companies fell in Europe.
Angeli Boteros speaks English like an American teenager. A lifetime of watching American television and movies has left her sentences peppered with the trademark phrases of American youth, including ''like'' and ''you know.''
Ms. Boteros, 26, is so steeped in American popular culture, and has such a good accent, that on the phone, she could pass for a girl from California.
Petco.com will offer 25 percent discounts, Barnesandnoble.com will give away a travel bag for every $75 purchase and Adidas.com will waive shipping fees on Monday, a day widely touted as the biggest of the year for online merchants.
But is it?
Bees swarmed around Dennis Pappas as he pried open the door to a telephone equipment box belonging to Qwest Communications at an apartment building here recently. Inside, the insects had built a small but seemingly busy hive.
The bees called the box home because workers from Cox Communications, a local cable provider, did not properly plug a hole in it when they switched customers in the building over to Cox's phone service, said Mr. Pappas, a public policy chief at Qwest, the local phone company. As a result, Qwest had to bring in a contractor to undertake the risky task of removing the hive.
Microsoft submitted a new batch of technical information about its Windows operating system to the European Commission on Thursday, meeting the latest deadline to provide information on whether it is complying with a 2004 antitrust ruling.
''This is an important milestone,'' Microsoft said in a statement. Final edits and technical review of the information already submitted in July have now been completed, it added, insisting that it had not broken the summer deadline.
During the 1970s, researchers at Xerox's Palo Alto Research Center explored a software technique called ''garbage collection'' used for recycling computer memory. The technique allowed the automatic reuse of blocks of memory that were storing unused programs and data.
Today an anthropologist at the center, Brinda Dalal, has become a self-styled ''garbologist'' to assist in a joint effort with chemists at the Xerox Research Center of Canada to develop an ''erasable paper'' system. The goal is to recycle paper documents produced by the company's copiers -- potentially an unlimited number of times.
AS the holiday shopping season begins, Madison Avenue is paying tribute to a movie that has become a perennial for the generations that grew up after popular Christmas films like ''It's a Wonderful Life'' and ''Miracle on 34th Street.''
The movie is ''A Christmas Story,'' in which the humorist Jean Shepherd offers a rueful look back at his boyhood, circa 1940. The film presents the comic misadventures of Ralphie Parker, whose most fervent wish -- nay, obsession -- is to receive an ''official Red Ryder carbine-action 200-shot range model air rifle'' as a Christmas gift from his parents.
A week from tonight, viewers of the ''NBC Nightly News With Brian Williams'' will be able to watch more news -- and fewer commercials -- as a result of a sponsorship deal with the Philips Electronics North America Corporation.
The sponsorship is part of a weeklong, $2 million agreement between Philips and the NBC Universal division of General Electric that includes ''Today,'' two cable shows and a feature on NBC's digital weather channel. The deal is the latest element in a campaign that seeks to drive home the Philips advertising theme ''sense and simplicity.''
For generations of listeners, the Voice of America and its crackling international shortwave broadcasts are memories of huddling around radios, listening to accounts of the Allied landing on Normandy or the toppling of the Berlin Wall.
Today, the network's headlines are delivered on mobile phone news alerts, satellite television programs or Internet Webcasts. But the Voice of America, the 64-year-old international broadcasting service of the United States government, is still searching for relevance in an increasingly fierce market as rivals from commercial networks and public broadcasters compete for listeners.
Even though the Formula One auto racing circuit is on an annual break, its sponsorship machine has been busy.
Last month in Brazil, at the last race of the season, AT&T announced a multiyear deal to become lead sponsor of the Williams team, the highest-profile involvement in Formula One for the American telecommunications company.
Deep in a basement lab at the University of Toronto a team of political scientists, software engineers and computer-hacking activists, or ''hactivists,'' have created the latest, and some say most advanced tool yet in allowing Internet users to circumvent government censorship of the Web.
The program, called psiphon (pronounced ''SY-fon''), will be released on Dec. 1 in response to growing Internet censorship that is pushing citizens in restrictive countries to pursue more elaborate and sophisticated programs to gain access to Western news sites, blogs and other censored material.
Adults in Chicago are much more likely than those in Miami to have recently purchased a prepaid gift card, according to results of a survey by Scarborough Research, a consumer research firm.
Chicago was tied for first place with Harrisburg, Pa. The city with the second-lowest proportion of adults who had recently bought gift cards was Fresno, Calif. (39 percent), followed by New York City, with 40 percent.
A senior executive at the Toyota Motor Corporation who oversaw its successful hybrid vehicle program died Saturday when a small aircraft he was piloting crashed into the Pacific Ocean near San Pedro, Calif.
David W. Hermance, 59, was the executive engineer for environment engineering at the Toyota Technical Center USA near Los Angeles, and was credited for the sweeping success in the United States of the Toyota Prius, the best-selling gas-electric hybrid vehicle.
Most people have of a clear image of how atherosclerosis, popularly known as hardening of the arteries, causes a heart attack -- fatty deposits called plaque build up in a coronary artery until the day the blood flow that sustains the heart is blocked.
If only they were right. In reality, severe coronary artery blockages almost always cause chest pain known as angina and other symptoms as they form. But among those who suffer heart attacks, half of the men and two-thirds of the women report never experiencing a warning symptom. And autopsies of such victims frequently show blood clots jammed into arteries that have been only modestly narrowed.
Buying a pork chop labeled ''organic'' is relatively straightforward: it comes from a pig that ate only organic food, roamed outdoors from time to time and was left free of antibiotics.
But what makes a fish organic?
The American company says it was a legitimate cost of doing business in China, the price it had to pay to help secure a large software contract with one of China's biggest banks.
But a Chinese company that says it got pushed out of the deal has a different version: executives there say it was bribery, a case of an American company secretly funneling money to powerful Chinese government officials to ensure the lucrative banking contract.
The most wonderful time of the year? Tell that to Wal-Mart.
The world's largest retailer has long dominated the holiday shopping season, with eye-popping discounts that drew throngs of customers and made life miserable for competitors.
When computer industry executives heard about a plan to build a $100 laptop for the developing world's children, they generally ridiculed the idea. How could you build such a computer, they asked, when screens alone cost about $100?
Mary Lou Jepsen, the chief technologist for the project, likes to refer to the insight that transformed the machine from utopian dream to working prototype as ''a really wacky idea.''
Charles E. Grassley, the Iowa Republican and departing chairman of the Senate Finance Committee, has asked NASD, the securities industry's largest self-regulatory organization, to describe in detail how it identifies and tracks possible insider trading among its members.
Mr. Grassley's staff is investigating the Securities and Exchange Commission's handling of an insider-trading case involving a prominent hedge fund. The questions being asked of NASD indicate that Congressional scrutiny of the nation's market regulators is growing.
Sometimes it is the times that control what politicians do, whether or not they really want to do it.
Consider the state of regulation of American securities markets and some of the major players in those markets, notably the auditing firms and the investment banks.
Sony's video game unit said yesterday that Ken Kutaragi, the father of the PlayStation game console, would no longer run its day-to-day affairs. The move comes just weeks after Mr. Kutaragi's latest creation, the PlayStation 3, hit the market following a year of delays and technical problems.
Mr. Kutaragi, who is a celebrity among consumers in Japan and has had a sometimes stormy relationship with his superiors at Sony, will remain chief executive of Sony Computer Entertainment. He will also become chairman but will give up control of daily operations. Starting today, that job will belong to Kazuo Hirai, who has been running the game unit's American division.
When the comparison shopping sites Shopping.com, Shopzilla and PriceGrabber sold for a combined total of more than $1.7 billion last year, the BlackBerrys of Silicon Valley were suddenly abuzz.
How about social-networking shopping search? Photo-based shopping search? Wiki-shopping search?
A replica of what looks like Han Solo of ''Star Wars,'' frozen in carbonite, sits outside Jim Lanzone's office here. A closer inspection, however, reveals that the frozen body is that of another fictional character: Jeeves, the English butler best known in Internet circles as the mascot of the Ask Jeeves search engine.
For Mr. Lanzone, chief executive of Ask.com, the prop is a reminder of what the Internet search company he runs has ceased to be.
This just in from the Heartclog Hotel: To commemorate the 30th anniversary of Elvis Presley's death, the Hershey Company, the nation's largest candy maker, is planning to introduce a limited edition, peanut-butter-and-banana-creme Reese's cup.
Featuring a dashing picture of a young and svelte Elvis on the front of the package, the Reese's Elvis Cup, as it will be called, will land on store shelves next July, in plenty of time for Elvis Week in August. The week draws thousands of visitors to Memphis for events that include music, parades and a candlelight vigil.
''No offense, and I know Muslims. I like Muslims.''
Thus began Glenn Beck, a conservative talk-radio host who is six months into his own prime-time show on CNN Headline News, as he interviewed Congressman-elect Keith Ellison, the first Muslim elected to the House, on Nov. 14.
A few years ago, few people would have imagined spending hours in front of the television watching professional poker. Now competitive video gaming is going to get a shot at mainstream network treatment when an hourlong special about the World Series of Video Games appears as part of the CBS Sports Spectacular on Dec. 30.
The event will mark the first time that professional video gaming will be broadcast as a sport on network television. ''They Got Game: The Stars of the World Series of Video Games Presented by Intel,'' is the pinnacle of 20 hours of television programming about the event that is being shown across several Viacom outlets, including MTV and College Sports Television.
Decades ago, I wrote an article about a police officer who was notorious for roughing up suspects before he took them in for booking. The term-of-art within the Minneapolis police department for that kind of officer was ''thumper,'' and there was plenty in the public record to suggest that the noun fit him nicely.
He called me after the story ran, livid about being labeled a ''thumper.'' He was a scary guy and I equivocated for a bit before I was finally able to stammer out, ''is it worse that I said it, or worse that it's true?''
Down in Naples, Fla., a fast-growing city on the Gulf of Mexico, there was an auction of houses about a month ago.
An auction isn't the usual way to sell a home, but it can make sense for people who don't want to leave their houses on the market for months at a time and also don't want to take the first offer to come along. So on a Saturday morning inside the Naples Beach Hotel and Golf Club, a few dozen houses went on the block in front of about 500 bidders.
Rupert Murdoch and John C. Malone, who have wrangled for two years over Mr. Malone's challenge to Mr. Murdoch's control of the News Corporation, have made peace.
It was almost two years ago that Mr. Murdoch was stunned to learn that Mr. Malone, his friend and sometimes business partner, had bought a big voting stake in the News Corporation, a stake that could threaten Mr. Murdoch's grip on the colossus he built over five decades.
An eight-month investigation by the Interior Department's chief watchdog has found pervasive problems in the government's program for ensuring that companies pay the royalties they owe on billions of dollars of oil and gas pumped on federal land and in coastal waters.
In a scathing report to Congress, the Interior Department's inspector general says the agency's data are often inaccurate, that its officials rely too heavily on statements by oil companies rather than actual records and that only about 9 percent of all oil and gas leases are being reviewed.
''Short selling,'' thundered Representative Adolph J. Sabath, Democrat of Illinois, ''is the greatest evil that has been permitted or sanctioned by the government that I know of.'' It was, in short, the cause of the Great Depression.
He was speaking at a House hearing in 1932 on his bill to make short selling illegal. Had such a ban been in place in 1929, he said, ''I am satisfied that not one-half of the banks that were closed nor of the factories or other plants that were closed would have been closed, and there would not be eight million or nine million people out of employment, nor would there have been over 20 million people who lost all they possessed, due to the manipulation on the stock exchanges.''
Soft light gently illuminates two former lovers, eyes only for each other, as they stand on a balcony on a warm, starry night.
''Love isn't like a hedge fund, you know?'' Ryan tells Kendall. ''You can't have all your money in one investment, and if it looks a little shaky, you can't just buy into something that looks a little bit safer.''
As November drew near, A. Paul Victor, who spent decades at the law firm Weil, Gotshal & Manges defending corporate clients, kept a close eye on the calendar.
For Mr. Victor, the dreaded date, Nov. 6, was his 68th birthday -- the mandatory retirement age at the law firm.
Scientists at I.B.M. and two partner companies have developed a promising material that they believe will lead to a new kind of computer memory chip able to meet the growing appetite for storing digital music, pictures and video.
The advance will be described in a technical paper to be presented Monday at the International Electron Devices Meeting in San Francisco by researchers from I.B.M. and two computer memory manufacturers, Qimonda and Macronix. The scientists have designed a new semiconductor alloy derived from materials currently used in optical storage devices like CDs and DVDs.
In late May, more than five million Web users vanished.
The disappearing act came when Nielsen/NetRatings, a leading company in measuring Internet traffic, sharply cut its previously reported statistics for the financial Web site Entrepreneur.com to 2 million unique visitors in April, from 7.6 million.
REMEMBER the dueling beer drinkers in the Miller Lite commercials? Tastes great! No, less filling!
The message, of course, was loud and clear: the beer is both, dummy!
Turkey's relationship with the European Union, and with the wider Western world, may be fraught with uncertainties. But now, Turkey has MTV.
In October, MTV Turkey became the latest of more than 50 MTV channels worldwide, beaming music videos and other entertainment to cable and satellite viewers across the country. While Turks had long been able to tune in to MTV Europe, an English-language channel, MTV Turkey adds local musical acts and Turkish-language television hosts into the international mix.
The news can be pretty hard on stock prices.
Announcements about corporate profits (or lack thereof), a change in management, rumors of a merger, even the weather. All these events can cause a company's share price to move wildly up or down.
The Public Broadcasting System has added a new revenue channel to the pledge drives and sales of Masterpiece Theater DVDs it uses to supplement its federal funding: a PBS coffee blend.
Last week, PBS announced a partnership with Green Mountain Coffee Roasters, in the first non-media-related commercial venture for the television company. Green Mountain has produced and packaged a PBS Blend, which is being sold by Green Mountain and the PBS Web site, shoppbs.org, in a brand licensing arrangement. PBS will also make the coffee available to its member stations as a product to offer during on-air fund-raising pledge drives.
The European medical products manufacturer Smith & Nephew is expected to bid about £6 billion, or more than $11 billion, for the medical device maker Biomet this week, according to several executives involved in the sale.
There is no guarantee a deal will be reached. The London-based Biomet, which specializes in joint-replacement devices and is based in Warsaw, Ind., could also attract other offers, including private equity bids, analysts said.
Melody Millett was shocked when her car loan company asked her if she was the wife of Abundio Perez, who had applied for 26 credit cards, financed several cars and taken out a home mortgage using a Social Security number belonging to her actual husband.
Beyond her shock, Mrs. Millett was angry. Five months earlier, the Milletts had subscribed to a $79.99-a-year service from Equifax, a big financial data warehouse, that promised to monitor any access to her credit records. But it never reported the credit activity that might have signaled that they were victims of identity theft.
As a private in the Canadian army reserve, Marcos Henriquez drove light armored vehicles, sometimes while he was training with American soldiers.
At the end of four years with the military, Mr. Henriquez found work inspecting similar vehicles as they rolled off an assembly line at a General Motors of Canada plant in London, Ontario.
The three words ''uncertain regulatory environment'' would not seem that unusual in a public utility rate case.
But when S. Bradley Van Cleve, a lawyer for the 34 biggest industrial customers of Portland General Electric, read testimony that an Oregon utility executive gave in late October, his suspicions were aroused. They were the same three words used in a report in September by Standard & Poor's, Portland G.E.'s credit rating agency, on the utility's financial health.
More than a dozen prominent business executives and retired military officers, including the chairman of FedEx and a former commandant of the Marine Corps, are lobbying Congress and the White House to undertake a comprehensive campaign to reduce reliance on imported oil.
The group, which includes top executives from the chemical, trucking and airline industries, wants much tougher fuel economy standards, not only on cars and sport utility vehicles, but also on heavy trucks, which some of the companies use. They want increased drilling offshore and within the United States, a much harder push for ethanol and other biofuels, and other changes that would permanently reduce the importance of oil as a strategic commodity and an economic force.
Nasdaq started the takeover clock ticking on Tuesday when it officially made a $5.3 billion hostile bid for the London Stock Exchange.
Stockholders will initially have until Jan. 11 to tender their shares to Nasdaq, which is offering £12.43 ($24.49) apiece. Nasdaq already holds 28.75 percent of the London market and needs a simple majority, or just one share over 50 percent, to take control. It can extend that deadline once, to Feb. 10.
Skype, the Internet calling service owned by eBay, said Tuesday that as of Jan. 1 it would begin charging $30 a year for unlimited calls to landline and mobile phones within the United States and Canada. Those calls had been free since last spring.
The new annual fee for unlimited calling, while still nominal compared with other Internet calling plans, is part of a broader strategy by eBay to expand Skype's product offerings and revenue.
In a move that will enable its employees to earn more money from stock options -- and perhaps motivate them to settle for fewer of them in pay packages as a result -- Google said yesterday that it would create a system allowing options to be sold as well as exercised.
Under the program, Google will grant employees a new type of option, called a transferable stock option. The company will work with Morgan Stanley to set up a market that will enable financial institutions and other investors to bid for those options.
Money is not supposed to grow on trees. Unless you happen to work at Goldman Sachs.
The investment bank reported earnings yesterday that left jaws agape on Wall Street. Quarterly profits soared 93 percent. The bank earned nearly as much per share in 2006 as it had in the last two years combined, both of which were also record years. Immediately after the results were released, they were labeled the best ever by an American investment bank.
AirTran Holdings is roughly a tenth the size of its main competitor, Delta Air Lines. So AirTran executives would seem unlikely cheerleaders of a potential merger that would make Delta 60 percent larger.
But the recent $8.5 billion takeover offer for Delta by US Airways has found a fan in Joseph B. Leonard, chief executive at AirTran, which, like Delta, flies routes across the Southeast from its hub in Atlanta.
Chrysler executives startled investors in late October when they acknowledged that the company had been building tens of thousands of cars on spec to keep its factories humming. Those cars were not included in the company's estimates of its backlog of unsold vehicles on dealer lots -- a figure that was already high by industry standards.
But Chrysler's chief executive, Thomas W. LaSorda, said Thursday on a company blog that Chrysler would continue to build cars that dealers had not ordered -- just fewer of them.
IF women have any doubts that their men truly love them, this won't help. According to at least one poll last week, nearly half of all men in relationships had yet to buy gifts for their spouses.
But forces of the corporate world are set to bail out shopping slackers yet again, only you wouldn't know how unless you somehow noticed that delivery trucks were making fewer left-hand turns than ever.
In an attempt to bolster consumer interest in paid video on demand, Comcast, the nation's largest cable operator, has introduced an experimental program to release films on demand simultaneously with their release on DVDs.
The experiment, which will run on Comcast systems in Pittsburgh and Denver, would let customers pay $4 to see a movie the same day they could buy it at a neighborhood store for about $25, or rent it for about the same price as the on-demand service.
From the first season of Showtime's ''The L Word,'' a chart mapping the relationships of the character Alice has been a central motif, growing to take over an entire wall. Starting Jan. 7 with the start of the fourth season of the lesbian-themed drama, the Chart is going live, both on the series and in the real world.
Looking for compelling Internet component (like all media executives), ''The L Word'' creator Ilene Chaiken realized that she could spin off the Chart as an advertiser-supported social networking Web site aimed at lesbians and their friends and families.
The dialogue surrounding the Warner Brothers film ''Blood Diamond'' and its implicit criticism of the diamond industry took a new turn this month, as the hip-hop producer and entertainment mogul Russell Simmons returned from an industry-paid trip to Africa and began vocally defending the diamond trade.
The trip to Botswana and South Africa was largely paid for and organized by the Diamond Information Center, which handles public relations in the United States for the Diamond Trading Company, the marketing division of De Beers. Benjamin Chavis, a former executive director of the N.A.A.C.P. and a close associate of Mr. Simmons, who traveled to Africa with him, said the trip had been a long-planned project unrelated to the movie. (Mr. Simmons was out of the country on vacation and unavailable to comment.)
China will buy four Westinghouse nuclear reactors in a deal that shows the continued attractiveness of American technology, but may also stir worries in Washington that the United States is selling its competitive advantage one industry at a time.
Energy Secretary Samuel W. Bodman of the United States and Ma Kai, the minister of China's National Development and Reform Commission, signed a memorandum of understanding for the reactors in Beijing on Saturday. The deal calls for the state-owned China National Nuclear Corporation to buy the reactors from Westinghouse Electric, which the Toshiba Corporation, based in Tokyo, bought earlier this year.
In its search for a new chief executive this past summer, Air America Radio interviewed seasoned media executives in an effort to revive the faltering network. One interview took a bizarre turn, however, when the executive got into a political argument with Randi Rhodes, one of the network's on-air hosts.
''I laughed and said, 'You sound like Republican talking points,' '' Ms. Rhodes recalled.
When the News Corporation killed Judith Regan's multimedia rollout of O. J. Simpson's ''hypothetical confession,'' Rupert Murdoch called the project ''ill-conceived.''
The phrase he should have used was ''ill-received.''
American Apparel, the casual clothing chain whose socially conscious manufacturing, sexually charged advertising and snug-fitting T-shirts have generated a cultlike following, will be sold to a little-known investment firm for $382.5 million, according to people briefed on the matter.
The decision to sell the privately held company, expected to be announced today, is a surprise move by the company's eccentric founder, Dov Charney, who is known for exercising strict, and at times controversial, control over the retailer's operations.
Poor pay, long hours and the contempt of many employees and customers -- that pretty much sums up the job of running an airline these days.
The only thing worse, for the management masochists who seek these positions out, is living in daily fear that the job might be taken away.
Fannie Mae's main regulator sued the company's former chairman and chief executive, Franklin D. Raines, and two top financial officers yesterday in an effort to extract more than $215 million in bonus payouts and fines over their involvement in a huge-scale accounting scandal.
The regulator, the Office of Federal Housing and Enterprise Oversight, is seeking about $100 million in penalties. But its effort to recoup more than $115 million in bonus payments is notable for its rarity and size.
Acknowledging that the online auction market in China is enticingly fast-growing but frustratingly tough to crack, eBay will shut its main Web site in China and enter into a joint venture with a Chinese company instead, a person briefed on the plans of the companies said yesterday.
EBay will take a 49 percent stake in the venture, he said, with Tom Online Inc., an Internet company based in Beijing, taking the majority share and administering the venture, which has yet to be named.
Many local governments began turning to their pension funds to help pay for health care for retired public workers in the 1990s. Some are now regretting it.
When the financial markets were producing soaring returns, governments sought to use the gains in their pension funds to help cover rising health costs. Then came years of investment losses and double-digit increases in health care costs.
It has been a good week to be Leon Black. In the course of just three days, Mr. Black, the enigmatic founder of the Apollo Group, a private equity firm, has struck about $37 billion worth of deals.
On Sunday, Apollo acquired Realogy, the giant real estate franchiser that owns Coldwell Banker, Century 21 and Sotheby's International Realty. That deal has now been trumped by a $27.8 billion deal yesterday for Harrah's Entertainment, the world's largest casino company. The acquisition, which includes the assumption of $10.7 billion in debt, was made in tandem with the Texas Pacific Group.
Let's face it: we're in love with the idea of secret location trackers. In ''The Da Vinci Code,'' the bad guys slap a location-tracking button onto Tom Hanks's clothing. In ''The Matrix,'' a location-tracking scorpion robot crawls into Keanu Reeves's abdomen. In ''Total Recall,'' a tracking device is implanted into Arnold Schwarzenegger's nose.
Many parents may have fleetingly harbored the fantasy of equipping their children with such tracking devices (though perhaps not through their noses or navels). You could find out instantly where your teenager was, or find out that your middle-schooler didn't come home after school because of a rendezvous you forgot about.
For at least a year, Eli Lilly provided information to doctors about the blood-sugar risks of its drug Zyprexa that did not match data that the company circulated internally when it first reviewed its clinical trial results, according to company documents.
The original results showed that patients on Zyprexa, Lilly's pill for schizophrenia, were 3.5 times as likely to experience high blood sugar levels as those taking a placebo, according to a February 2000 memo sent to top Lilly scientists. The memo is one of hundreds of internal Lilly documents provided to The New York Times by a lawyer in Alaska who represents mentally ill patients.
Oil shale has never made an American company more than a nickel or two; quite a few, in fact, have lost countless millions over the last century trying to cook oil out of the rock. R. Glenn Vawter, who has worked as an executive for many of the losers, knows all that only too well.
Oil shale's many starts and stops have driven Mr. Vawter's career but have also unsettled his family life, forcing 37 moves during one 25-year spell early in his career.
Foreign businesses have embraced an obscure United Nations-backed program as a favored approach to limiting global warming. But the early efforts have revealed some hidden problems.
Under the program, businesses in wealthier nations of Europe and in Japan help pay to reduce pollution in poorer ones as a way of staying within government limits for emitting climate-changing gases like carbon dioxide, as part of the Kyoto Protocol.
Bristol-Myers Squibb has reached a tentative agreement to pay $499 million to settle a federal investigation into illegal sales and marketing activities from the late 1990s through 2005, the company said yesterday.
That settlement, and separate special charges the company also announced yesterday, would wipe out Bristol-Myers fourth-quarter profit. But its shares rose on the indication that the company was resolving a big legal issue and tidying up its books, making it a more viable takeover candidate. The United States attorney's office in Boston, which first subpoenaed the records of Bristol-Myers in the matter in 2003, declined to confirm the announcement, saying it did not comment on such negotiations unless a final settlement has been signed.
It's becoming harder and harder for some companies to file financial statements, and one result is that Navistar, one of the most historic companies in America, was almost kicked off the New York Stock Exchange this week -- and was cut from the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index, where it had been since the predecessor of that list was begun in 1925.
Navistar, known as International Harvester before it sold its farm equipment business and changed its name two decades ago, is still a substantial producer of trucks and engines, and boasts that it is the largest maker of school buses in the United States. But a battle with auditors has left it reeling and vulnerable.
In a kitchen lit by a bare bulb, where cockroaches roam and the floor is a mosaic of cracked linoleum, Tatyana N. Mailyan dreams of real estate riches.
The glum conditions are no guide to the true value of her property. Once a wasteland of Soviet living that packed multiple families into single apartments, communal flats like the one Ms. Mailyan shares with her daughters and an elderly man are suddenly in vogue as elegant fixer-uppers, both as offices and luxury residences.
Hewlett-Packard is looking for a second act. Several of them, actually.
Its turnaround was confirmed this year when profits from PCs and corporate servers and storage devices nearly doubled from a year earlier. It sold more PCs than any other maker and claimed the title of the world's largest technology company.
The telenovela, the steamy low-budget soap opera genre that has become the staple of television programming in Spanish-speaking countries, lives on its sudden bursts of uncontrollable -- and loudly acted -- passion.
Maybe that was what was burning in the hearts of network executives in New York about this time last year when, seemingly out of the blue, many of them announced a rush to begin developing a new form of programming for the summer: the American telenovela.
It's a brisk Wednesday morning in the windy caverns of Wall Street and Sarah Clark's toes are cold.
Dressed in a purple flight attendant outfit, Ms. Clark, a 26-year-old model, is trying to entice recent bonus recipients at Goldman Sachs into using a charter plane service, handing out $1,000 discount coupons to people in front of the investment bank's Broad Street headquarters.
Economists have long waxed lyrical about a ''Goldilocks economy''-- one that is not too hot, not too cold.
In this ideal world, the economy is running so smoothly that there is little risk of it overheating and pushing inflation higher -- forcing the Federal Reserve to raise interest rates. Nor is the job market weakening, threatening to plunge the economy into the icy bath of a recession.
It was Andrea Illy's grandfather, Francesco Illy, who back in the 1930s invented the espresso, a steam-driven coffee maker to replace the little pots Italians used until then.
So it is not surprising that Mr. Illy, who now runs the coffee company Illycaffè, sought in recent years to have the name espresso protected by law, so that it could be used only by Italian espresso makers. It was a gambit to take back the espresso heritage.
It may be the ultimate S O S -- Morse Code is in distress.
The language of dots and dashes has been the lingua franca of amateur radio, a vibrant community of technology buffs and hobbyists who have provided a communications lifeline in emergencies and disasters.
Care for a Chihuahua with a blue hue?
Or how about a teacup poodle so tiny it will fit into a purse -- the canine equivalent of a bonsai?
Builders sold new homes at a faster rate last month than they did in October, shrinking the backlog of unsold homes on the market, the Commerce Department reported yesterday.
But many economists said the report, rather than foreshadowing a quick rebound, highlighted how fragile residential construction remained and suggested that the downturn now rattling the housing market had not yet run its course.
It's called the ''golden hello.''
For a chief executive of a large corporation, it is the one thing -- more than the corporate jet or any other perk -- that must be guaranteed before the executive will move to run another company.
